Defense of Sihang Warehouse
Part of the Battle of Shanghai of the Second Sino-Japanese
War
Sihang Warehouse during the battle
Date
October 2731, 1937
(4days)
Location
Zhabei, Shanghai, Republic of China
31.242183N 121.466298E
Result
Withdrawal of Chinese forces to the Shanghai
International Settlement on 31 October 1937
Belligerents
China
Japan
Commanders and leaders
 Xie Jinyuan
 Yang Ruifu(WIA)
 Okochi Denshichi
 Haji Kitaro
Units involved
 88th Division
1st Battalion, 524th
Regiment
Strength
410420 soldiers
~1,200 naval infantry
Casualties and losses
Defense of Sihang Warehouse
The Defense of Sihang Warehouse
(Chinese: ) took place
from October 27 to October 31, 1937, and
marked the beginning of the end of the
three-month Battle of Shanghai in the
opening phase of the Second Sino-
Japanese 
War. 
Defenders 
of 
the
warehouse held out against numerous
waves of Japanese forces to cover Chinese
forces retreating west during the Battle of
Shanghai.
The Chinese defenders were composed of
a single half-strength battalion from the
elite German-trained 88th Division, who
had fortified and occupied the large "Four
Banks" 
(Sihang) 
Warehouse 
in 
the
downtown Zhabei district, along with
several 
buildings. 
The 
warehouses
location just across the Suzhou Creek
from 
the 
Shanghai 
International
Settlement meant the battle took place in
full view of the Western powers. Tens of
thousands 
of 
Chinese 
and 
Western
civilians were thus able to witness the
battle as it unfolded.
After enduring several days of repeated
attacks by the Japanese, the Chinese
defenders were permitted to retreat into
the 
nearby 
International 
Settlement,
which they managed to do with most of
their strength intact.
The defense of the warehouse and media
reporting of the event provided a morale-
lifting consolation to the Chinese army
and people in the demoralizing aftermath
of the Japanese invasion of China.
 Shanghai Special Naval
Landing Force
10th Battalion (reinforced)
Yokosuka 2nd Independent
SNLF Company
Kure 1st SNLF
8th and 9th Companies
(artillery)
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

1/31

Chinese Records:
1035 killed
3754 wounded
Modern Western
Estimate:
33 killed and missing
50+ wounded
Japanese Claim:
80100 killed[Note 1]
Chinese Estimates:
100200+ killed
4 tanks destroyed or damaged
Western Reports:
Moderate to heavy
losses
Japanese Records:
1 fatal casualty among 4
wounded[Note 1]:229237[Note 2]
Location within Shanghai
Sihang Warehouse
Chinese name
TraditionalChinese

SimplifiedChinese

Transcriptions
Eight Hundred Heroes
TraditionalChinese

SimplifiedChinese

Transcriptions
Japanese name
Kanji

Transcriptions
Japanese sources on the Defense of
Sihang Warehouse differ, which record
the defense as being a relatively minor
skirmish within the entire Battle of
Shanghai.
By 26 October 1937, Chinese resistance in
the district of Zhabei was faltering.
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek wanted to
withdraw all forces in the area to defend
the rural western regions of Shanghai,
and 
ordered 
Gu 
Zhutong, 
acting
commander of the 3rd Military Region, to
leave the 88th Division behind to buy
time and canvass international support by
showing the other nations of the Nine
Powers (which were to convene on 6
November) 
Chinas 
determination 
to
resist the Japanese during the Second
Sino-Japanese War.
Neither Gu, Sun, nor Zhang were about to disobey
Chiangs orders, but Sun (via Zhang) suggested to Gu
that the number of troops left to cover the withdrawal
would not matter for such a show of determination. In
his words, "How many people we sacrifice would not
make a difference; it would achieve the same
purpose."
At 10 p.m. on 26 October, the 524th Regiment, based at
the Shanghai North Railway Station, received orders to
withdraw to the divisional headquarters at Sihang
Warehouse. 1st Battalion commander Yang Ruifu was
distraught at having to abandon a position he had held
for more than two months.
524th Regiment, 88th Division: Regimental commander (CO), Army Lieutenant Colonel Xie
Jinyuan
Background
Order of battle and equipment
National Revolutionary Army
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

2/31

Map of the area around the
warehouse:
 Sihang Warehouse, garrisoned by
NRA troops
 Foreign concessions, international
settlements
Lieutenant Colonel
Xie Jinyuan,
commander of the
Chinese force
Executive officer (XO), Army Major
Shangguan Zhibiao ()
1st Battalion, 524th Regiment:
Battalion Commander, Army Major
Yang Ruifu ()
1st Company, 1st Battalion:
Company commander, Army
Captain Tao Xingchun ()
2nd Company, 1st Battalion:
Company commander, Army
Captain Deng Ying ()
3rd Company, 1st Battalion:
Company commander, Army
Captain Shi Meihao (,
wounded), Army Captain Tang Di (
)
Machine Gun Company, 1st Battalion: Company commander, Army Captain Lei Xiong (
)
Initially containing around 800 men, the 1st was technically an over-strength battalion, but casualties
suffered over the course of the Battle of Shanghai reduced its actual strength just prior to the battle to
452 men (some sources give 423), including officers. Because of the confusion of the general retreat,
some units may have failed to make it to the warehouse, which caused a further reduction in strength,
down to only 414 men present at the beginning of the battle. Two months of intense fighting had also
whittled down the original German-trained troops, and after five rounds of reinforcements, the
majority of soldiers and officers in the battalion were garrison troops from the surrounding
provinces.
Most of the men were from the 1st Battalion, 5th Regiment of the Hubei Provincial Garrison. Hubei
did not want to send its best troops to Shanghai, as these had trained over a decade to fight against the
Chinese Communists. Thus, many of the soldiers sent as reinforcements to Shanghai were green
recruits, with the latest batch recruited after the outbreak of war on 7 July.
The regiment was assigned used equipment from the front-line troops of the 88th, and was well
equipped considering the poor equipment that most Chinese forces had. Photos and records show that
soldiers were each issued a rifle, likely a Hanyang 88 or Chiang Kai-shek rifle, 300 rounds of 8 mm
Mauser, two crates of M24 stick grenades, a German-made M1935 Stahlhelm, a gas mask, and food
pouch. There was a total of 27 light machine guns, mostly Czech ZB vz.26, approximately one for
each squad. The four water-cooled Type 24 Maxim guns were the only heavy weapons available to the
battaliona mortar platoon assigned to them was never mentioned by participants of the battle, and
was therefore unlikely to have joined the battle.
Shanghai Special Naval Landing Force: Rear Admiral Okochi Denshichi
Imperial Japanese Forces
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

3/31

Rear Admiral kochi Denshichi,
Commander of the Shanghai SNLF.
Shanghai SNLF 10th Battalion: Lieutenant-
Commander Haji Kitaro
Yokosuka 2nd Independent SNLF Company
Kure 1st SNLF
Shanghai SNLF 8th and 9th Companies
Captain Okochi Denshichi had been assigned command of the
Shanghai SNLF on November 16, 1936, and was promoted to
Rear Admiral at the beginning of the following month.
Prior to the Battle of Shanghai the Shanghai SNLF had a
strength of just over 2300 men, but shortly before the battle
the force began to be hastily reinforced with additional Special
Naval Landing Forces and ship crews deployed on land.
Reinforcements would continue to arrive throughout the
course of the battle and by October 1937 the force exceeded
10,000 men in strength.
On the morning of October 27, 1937 the Shanghai Special
Naval Landing Force would launch an attack to takeover
Zhabei. Their attacking forces were known as the "Zhabei
Force," and made of the Shanghai SNLF"s 2nd, 3rd, 6th, 10th,
and 12th Battalions. The Shanghai SNLF 10th Battalion would
be assigned to the Zhabei Forces Southern Section:46 and serve as the main force opposing the
defenders of Sihang Warehouse.
The 10th Battalionnoted as a reservist battalion:6had a strength of 506 men and 21
officers:14 under the command of Lieutenant Commander Haji Kitaro.,10 Hajis 10th Battalion
arrived in Shanghai on the evening of August 19 and was initially used as a reserve force. The
battalion later served in Yangshupu from August 21 to 24, before returning to guard the Shanghai
Special Naval Landing Force Headquarters in Hongkou. On September 21 the battalion was deployed
to the sector south of Jukong Road on North Szechuan Road.,232 On September 28, the
Yokosuka 2nd Independent SNLF "Kobayashi" Company numbering around 257 men:19:7[Note 3]
was placed under Hajis command:78 and would serve as the 10th Battalions 3rd Company:7
From September 29 to October 6, Hajis 10th Battalion and the 2nd Battalion fought fiercely against
the 88th Division around the North Szechuan Road in efforts to advance to the Songhu Railway Line.
The fighting resulted in eight dead and another 33 wounded in the 10th Battalion.
The Shanghai SNLFs 8th and 9th Companies, originally attached to the 4th Battalion (Artillery
Battalion), would also provide support with howitzers and mountain guns during the assault on
Sihang Warehouse. The Shanghai SNLFs records on attack indicate they utilized eight 8cm
mountain guns, two 12cm howitzers, and four more 15cm howitzers.
Imperial Japanese Army 3rd Division
According to Western historian Stephen Robinson, on October 25 following the fall of Dachang, the
3rd Division advanced past Zoumatang creek behind the 9th Division, and entered Zhabei to
encounter the remaining Chinese battalion in the Sihang Warehouse. Period Japanese military
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

4/31

Zhabei district burning on the morning
of October 27, immediately before the
fighting near Sihang Warehouse began.
reports, Senshi Soshothe official war monographs of the Imperial Japanese Army and Navy
authored by the Japanese National Institute for Defense Studies, and the IJA 3rd Divisions unit
history record that the Division was engaged along the Suzhou River Crossing Operation at the
time. Chinese reportage writer Xu Zhigeng also stated that the 3rd Division,
after capturing Wusong, Yanghang, Liuhang, Wenzaobin, and Dachang, participated in the fierce
battle to cross the Suzhou River on October 28. The "Chinas Anti-Japanese War Combat
Operations", the first comprehensive historical record for the main battlefields of Chinas War of
Resistance to be written in mainland China, stated that the 9th Division and 3rd Division of Japans
Shanghai Expeditionary Army reached the north bank of the Suzhou River on October 28 and the 3rd
Division began crossing the river at around noon on October 31. "A Battlefield Photographic
Documentary of the Battle of Shanghai" identified the Landing Force of the Imperial Japanese Navy
as the unit which attacked and captured the Sihang Warehouse. The "Illustrated History of the
Japanese Invasion of China" identified the Landing Force of the Imperial Japanese Navy as the unit
which started mopping-up Zhabei on October 27 and captured Sihang Warehouse on October 31 in
the "Japanese Troops Captured Zhabei, Dachang Town, and Other Places" section. The 3rd Division
was also identified as the unit which captured the radio broadcasting station in Zhenru on October 27
in the "Japanese Troops Forcibly Crossed the Suzhou River" section. Initial Chinese
translation of Japanese reports also showed that the SNLF was the unit which faced the Sihang
Warehouse defenders.
In the morning of October 27, the various companies of the
524th Regiment 1st Battalion were trickling in from Zhabei,
under orders from Xie Jinyuan. The effort was difficult, as
some units in the battalion had begun moving west with the
bulk of the Chinese Army. Visibility was compromised by the
heavy presence of smoke and fire, as much of the Zhabei
district had been set on fire by the retreating Chinese units.
Through the efforts of several messengers, most of the men
were rallied from the retreating mass of soldiers. By 9 a.m. the
last remaining forces in the Battalion had turned up at the
warehouse, a force of just over 400 men and officers. That
these men had volunteered for the defense was later noted by
Chiang Kai-shek as exemplary soldierly conduct.
Battle
Chinese and Western Accounts of Events
October 27
Chinese Preparation
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

5/31

Japanese SNLF in the ruins of the
Shanghai North Railway Station,
immediately before attacking Sihang
Warehouse, October 27
The Chinese spread out their forces across the warehouse and the outlying perimeter. The 1st
Company had taken positions on the right flank of the warehouse along the Tibet Road, the 3rd
Company on the left across the Bank of Communications building, and the 2nd Company on the
northern and southern sides under the leadership of Major Yang Ruifu. Two Type-24 Maxim heavy
machine guns were installed on the roof in an anti-aircraft role, while the other machine guns were
distributed to the 1st and 3rd Companies.
At 5:05 AM, the Imperial Japanese Navys Shanghai Special
Naval Landing Force (Shanghai SNLF) ordered their forces to
launch a general assault on Zhabei. Domei News Agency
reported on the Shanghai SNLFs rapid movements through
Zhabei, relaying that the Haji and Sano Units had commenced
their attacks from the North Szechuan Road area and Hajis
men had successfully taken the Pantheon Theatre by 6:55 AM.
The troops continued west and captured the North Railway
Station at 7:20 AM, with the Japanese Naval Ensign reported
to be flying atop the Railway Administration Bureau ten
minutes later. A Chinese platoon positioned in the
advance outposts began sniping at Japanese patrols around
that time, and over the next two hours, the Chinese platoon
began 
a 
fighting 
retreat 
back 
to 
the 
warehouse
perimeter.
At 7:30 AM, Yang Ruifu received word from his guard force of the Japanese advance towards their
position east of the North Station at Han Bridge. Yang ordered his men to not retreat without orders
and resist with all their might. 45 minutes later, he was notified the station had fallen into Japanese
hands.
Domei reported that at 9:20 AM, Haji and Sanos forces began their advance into the Zhabei Pocket to
sweep out remaining resistance from Chinese forces. As the Japanese approached the
warehouse, the Chinese defenders took defensive positions on the different floors of the warehouse
and along the outer wall surrounding the building, whilst watching for enemy movement through the
slots inside the walls.
At 1 p.m. a column of Japanese soldiers was seen marching towards the warehouse in what appeared
to be a victory parade, brandishing a large Rising Sun banner. Once they were close enough, the
Chinese defenders open fired. Five Japanese soldiers fell to the ground, while the rest of the column
scattered for cover.
The Japanese then attacked the Bank of Communications to the immediate west of the warehouse.
Hundreds of Japanese marines were seen assaulting the street fortifications surrounding the
warehouse, using "trench mortars" on several occasions to clear the area. However, upon
attempting to secure some abandoned fortifications, several Japanese soldiers stumbled into a trap:
the Chinese defenders, having preemptively rigged a bunker with grenades and a mortar round,
"pulled the grenade rope," killing another five Japanese soldiers in the ensuing explosions.
Opening skirmishes
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

6/31

The Shanghai North Railway Station,
after months of fighting and bombing.
Shanghai SNLF naval infantry in
action in downtown Shanghai, October
1937.
A series of frames taken from footage
of the Japanese attacks on October 27.
The smoke trails are from grenades
detonating in the street, thrown from the
warehouse roof by Chinese defenders.
Chinese defenders continued developing defenses by sealing
the warehouses doors, windows and entry points, as well as
constructing makeshift dummy positions on the perimeter to
draw Japanese fire and waste ammunition.
Japanese 
marines
received
reinforcements 
and
began 
attempts 
to
break 
into 
the
warehouse 
around
soon after, targeting the warehouse from North Suzhou
Road. They were soon met with intense fire from the
Chinese. The Japanese, numbering some fifty strong, began
advancing on the warehouse under the cover of steel shields
slotted for rifle fire. A group of Chinese reconnaissance
troops, led by platoon leader Yin Qiucheng ( ),
exchanged fire with the attacking formations near the Wuzhen
Bridge, killing four Japanese soldiers according to a journalist
watching across the river.
According to one foreign eye-witness quoted in the Shanghai-based North China Herald, the Japanese
began attempting to break their way into the Sihang Warehouse around 10 AM. From the south
bank of the Suzhou Creek in the International Settlement, another reporter observed the Naval
Landing Forcesarmed with machine-guns, rifles, hand-grenades, some Chinese swords, and steel
shieldsadvance east along the Suzhou Creek and take over an abandoned Chinese redoubt west of
the warehouse on Wuzhen Road () at 11:15 AM.
The Japanese increased their firepower on the building, and
managed to push the Chinese from their frontline sandbag
positions with hand grenades back to their secondary
lines. As the battle continued, 3rd Company Captain
Shi Meihao was shot in the face but continued to command
the defense until he was hit in the leg. Eventually, the Chinese
were forced to abandon the outer wall, and barricaded
themselves inside the warehouse itself. When the Japanese
attempted to follow them to the edge of the warehouse, they
were attacked by hand grenades thrown by Chinese soldiers
positioned on the upper floors, forcing them to take cover in a
blind spot at the south-west of the warehouse. Noticing them,
a dozen Chinese soldiers climbed onto the roof and hurled
mortar rounds and grenades down at the Japanese, killing
First attacks on Sihang Warehouse
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

7/31

The Sihang Warehouse during the
defense. Note the black Chinese
characters painted on the west wall.
A photograph showing the position of
Sihang Warehouse to the International
Settlement. The proximity enabled many
Western and Chinese civilians to watch
the battle from a short distance.
seven and wounding between twenty and thirty. The survivors were then driven away
when a Chinese machine gunner began to shoot at them from one of the warehouse windows.
Word had been spreading since the early morning that there
were still Chinese forces defending Zhabei near the
warehouse. As the battle continued, crowds of spectators
began to amass on the other side of the 60-yard Suzhou Creek,
reportedly cheering every time a Japanese soldier was
killed.
At one point during
the 
battle, 
foreign
correspondents
witnessed a group of
Japanese 
soldiers
slowly 
approaching
the warehouse through the rubble, taking 50 minutes to cover
50 yards. However, the Chinese defenders, who had been
watching the Japanese approach from hidden vantage points
the entire time, rained hand grenades down on the group the
moment they were close enough. After the dust had settled,
survivors were finished off with rifles, and several Japanese
who rushed forward to rescue their wounded were killed
too.
A journalist witnessing the combat estimated that sixty Japanese were killed in total during the
assault by machine gun fire and grenades. In a letter Colonel Xie wrote to his superior 88th
Division Commander Sun Yuanliang, his defenders had killed around eighty Japanese soldiers in the
attacks on October 27. In a top-secret report on the China Incident from the Japanese Navy
restricted to high-ranking officers, a total of three Naval Landing Force troops were recorded as
seriously wounded and 24 more injured during the takeover of Zhabei on October 27. The North
China Herald reported that both sides had sustained casualties.
Chinese defenders and civilian spectators observed dogs dragging away Japanese casualties during
nighttime. As night fell, the Chinese defenders were tasked with constructing fortifications and
repairing any damages sustained during the attacks. Nobody was given any sleep.
By the morning of the 28th, the presence of the Chinese battalion in Zhabei had been made known by
radio news and several newspapers including North-China Herald, an English-language newspaper
based in Shanghai and regarded as the most influential foreign newspaper of its time. The strength
of the battalion was estimated at 500 men from the 88th Division, with around 150 having barricaded
themselves in the warehouse itself. Authorities within the International Settlement repeatedly
attempted to persuade the defenders to lay down their weapons and surrender in the Settlement, but
the defenders stated they were "determined to die for China."
October 28
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

8/31

Victims of "Bloody Saturday," killed by
a bombing in the Shanghai International
Settlement.
Chinese soldiers positioned on the
roof of Sihang Warehouse, October 28th
A Chinese light machine gun position
in Sihang Warehouse.
The North end of Sihang Warehouse
on October 28
At 7 a.m. a flight of Japanese bombers circled above the
warehouse but did not drop any bombs, for fear of hitting the
concessions in a repeat of "Bloody Saturday." An hour later,
Major Yang gave a speech to the officers and squad leaders
and then inspected the defenses constructed by the
soldiers. While on the roof with Colonel Xie Jinyuan and a
group of sentries, they spotted a group of Japanese soldiers
walking on the Suzhou Road along the Suzhou Creek, which
according to Yang Ruifu was about 1km (1,100 yd) away. Xie
ordered a sentry to give him his rifle and then fired on the
group; one of them promptly fell dead.
At 
3 
p.m., 
the
Japanese mounted a second assault on the warehouse,
bombarding the building with five artillery pieces and
machine gun fire from the Bank of Communications
rooftop. The Chinese retaliated with machine gun fire of
their own and showered hand grenades onto Japanese
soldiers attempting to approach the warehouse, which was
reported on by the English newspaper North China Daily
News. Japanese troops made repeated efforts to capture
the warehouse, but were beaten back each time by the Chinese
after brief exchanges of fire.
The Japanese, outnumbering the Chinese defenders and
repeatedly screaming "Banzai," then deployed trench mortars. Several fires broke out across the
battlefield, with Chinese soldiers shooting back with rifles and Mauser pistols. Both sides suffered
casualties in the intense firefight.
The 
combat 
was
witnessed 
by
thousands of Chinese
and foreigners who
had gathered across
the 
Suzhou 
Creek,
who relayed enemy
assembly 
locations
and operations to the
defenders using large
blackboards.
Witnesses described the armament of the attacking Japanese
Naval Landing Forces as machine-guns, rifles, hand-grenades,
a few captured Chinese broadswords, and steel shields. Another western observer witnessed three
Japanese troops make their way along the south wall of the warehouse. As one of the men attempted
Second assault on Sihang Warehouse
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

9/31

Shanghai Mayor Yu (Yui) Hongjun.
Chinese soldiers and civilians unload
food and supplies off the Suzhou Creek
near Sihang
to smash a window to the warehouse, a Chinese soldier dropped a hand grenade from a third story
window, which exploded behind them in the street. The same observer noted while the Japanese had
encircled the warehouse and sporadic fighting occurred throughout the day, the Japanese apparently
were making no determined effort to take the building by assault, as the warehouses fortress-like
nature would make doing so a costly endeavor.
As the fighting continued, the crowds watching the battle across the Creek were forced to relocate to
the rooftops of nearby buildings after machine gun bullets began to land in the Settlement. After two
hours, the Japanese gave up the assault, but cut off water and electricity to the warehouse, forcing the
Chinese to institute rationing. The defenders also collected their urine in large barrels to extinguish
any potential fires.
The defenders inside the warehouse contacted the Shanghai Chamber of Commerce, whose telephone
number was provided by Girl Guide Yang Huimin. Yang Huimin had previously delivered a request
for food, ammunition and lubricant on behalf of the defenders to the Chamber, but had been
unsuccessful. Xie requested that Shanghai Mayor Yui supply his men with 500 lb. salt, 500 lb.
sugar, and 50,000 Chinese biscuits.
By 
the 
evening 
of
October 28, Chinese
civilians 
inside 
the
Settlement 
had
organized 
a 
large
collection 
of 
food,
clothing, medicine and
other supplies via the
Shanghai Chamber of
Commerce. 
In
total, more than ten
truckloads of aid were
donated by Shanghais
citizens, including fruit, bread, cigarettes, newspapers and
mail. The supplies were then ferried across the New Lese
Bridge under the cover of darkness and unloaded next to the
warehouse.
The defenders were also facing a problem in the growing
number of wounded soldiers, who were unable to receive
adequate medical treatment whilst stranded in the warehouse.
Through an established phone link, the Chinese organized
their transfer across the nearby Lese Bridge into the International Settlement, where they would be
transported to hospitals in the Chinese part of Shanghai. As medics began to evacuate ten of the most
severely wounded soldiers, Major Yang Ruifu ordered that the men not disclose their actual numbers,
Supply situation and the "800 Heroes"
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

10/31

Yang Huimin posing with the
ROC flag.
and give the original battalion strength of 800 soldiers if asked so as to not "embolden the
Japanese." British Royal Welsh Fusiliers positioned on the southern bank of the creek provided
assistance to the evacuation efforts.
Soon after the evacuation, Shanghai newspapers announced soon after that 800 soldiers were
defending the warehouse, including the Central News Agency. As word spread about the fighting near
Sihang Warehouse, international newspapers began to report on the battalions defense, including the
New York Times, The Guardian, and the Sydney Morning Herald.
As they had the previous night, no Chinese soldiers were permitted to sleep and were instead ordered
to continue repairing the defenses.
As the combat around Sihang Warehouse had been unfolding, Chinese girl guide Yang Huimin had
been watching the fighting from a British bunker near the Lese Bridge. She had noticed that Zhabei
was covered in Japanese flags, and was troubled by the lack of a Chinese flag. She reported her
observations to the Shanghai Chamber of Commerce, whose leaders decided to give her a large
Republic of China flag to deliver to the defenders.
Yang Huimin wrapped the flag around her body underneath her
scout uniform, before returning to the British bunker around
evening. Upon sensing a brief opening, Yang snuck past the British
sentries patrolling the bank and rushed across the bridge to the
warehouse under cover of darkness.
Regiment-sized Chinese units did not carry army or national flags
during the war, so when Yang Huimin delivered the flag to the
warehouse, Xie Jinyuan personally accepted the flag as the highest-
ranking officer present. When Yang Huimin asked for the soldiers
plans, she was told "defend to the death." Yang Huimin then asked
for a list of all the soldiers names to announce to the entire
country.
As doing so would inform the Japanese of their real strength, Xie did
not disclose the information. Instead, he asked someone to write
down around the eight hundred names from the original roster of the 524th Regiment, imitating Yang
Ruifus earlier decision to conceal their true strength. The defenders also gave Yang Huimin
messages written in Chinese calligraphy on handkerchiefs. Taking Xies advice, Yang Huimin
returned to the opposite bank of the Suzhou Creek by swimming underwater to avoid detection.
Delivery of the Chinese flag
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

11/31

Yang Huimins flag flies over Sihang
Warehouse, photographed from the New
Lese Bridge
At 6 a.m. on the morning of October 29, the Chinese defenders
raised the flag, measuring four meters (13ft) wide, on the roof
of Sihang Warehouse. Since the defenders did not possess a
flagpole, they had improvised a makeshift pole made from two
bamboo culms tied together. Only a small group of soldiers
attended the flag-raising ceremony, including several buglers
and orderlies. Yang Huimin also witnessed the event upon
escaping across the Creek, which was reportedly conducted
quietly with less than twenty soldiers in attendance.
Upon noticing the flag, a crowd of roughly thirty thousand
people, consisting of both Chinese and foreigners,
gathered across the river. The flag measured larger than any of
the Japanese flags in the area and reportedly flew higher than the Japanese-held buildings in the
vicinity. Many of the Chinese civilians began to shout "Long live the Republic of China!" (Chinese:
; pinyin: Zhnghu Mngu wnsu!.
American reporter Keane Arundel who witnessed the event compared the situation to the Alamo, and
described the scene as "a symbol of Chinas heroic resolution to accept annihilation than Japanese
conquest. To Shanghais Americans it recalled Texas historic Alamo, where Americans died in 1836
rather than yield to Mexico."
Crowds continued to gather to watch the event unfold and some were observed carrying food for the
defenders. One Chinese observer, a 31-year old Shanghai City Government employee, was mistaken
for a Japanese spy because of his Manchurian accent and lynched by a mob before authorities could
rescue him.
The Japanese, angered by the display, began harassing the defenders by shooting from the nearby
Bank of Communications building, and also reportedly sent several aircraft to attack the flag. Because
of heavy anti-aircraft fire and fear of hitting the foreign concessions, the planes soon left without
destroying the flag.
In the afternoon of October 29, the Chinese defenders received a warning over telephone that Chinese
civilians had spotted a force of several hundred Japanese troops converging on the warehouse.
Minutes later, British soldiers guarding the New Lese Bridge provided a similar warning of a "final
enemy assault loom[ing] ahead."
The Japanese attacked at 2 p.m. with concentrated fire from numerous artillery pieces, and shelled the
warehouse for more than an hour. However, the Chinese defenders were protected by the ten-foot-
thick walls and only suffered a few wounded soldiers. Historian Eric Niderost wrote that the
October 29
Raising the Flag
Third assault on Sihang Warehouse
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

12/31

Japanese soldiers rush the west wall
of Sihang Warehouse, October 29.
Japanese troops scale the west wall
of Sihang Warehouse, October 29.
Japanese then attacked the warehouse from three directions
with hundreds of infantry and support from five Type 94 Te-
Ke tankettes, which Yang Ruifu observed advancing down the
road.
The Japanese intensified their efforts to captured the
warehouse, peppering the building with bullets and rifle-
grenade fire while reinforcing their machine gun positions on
North Suzhou Road. The Japanese shelled the warehouse with
a barrage of four rounds from their field guns around 3
p.m.
According to Baicheng Shangguan, Xie was positioned at a
window where Japanese attempted to attack with ladders. He grabbed the first Japanese soldiers
rifle, choked him with the other hand, shoved him off, and finally shot another Japanese soldier on the
ladder before pushing the ladder off. Yang Ruifu makes no reference to such an event or the
Japanese assaulting with ladders in his account of the fighting on the 29th.
Journalist Kean Arundel observed that "Chinese guns blazed
defiantly at Japanese who surrounded the building on three
sides." Japanese fire from a field gun was met with rifle fire
from the warehouse roof. The Japanese were observed by
western observers to have assaulted the warehouse again and
again with infantry charges, but each time were repelled by
showers of hand grenades and machine-gun fire. At one point,
the Japanese were reported to have attempted to "dynamite"
the warehouse, but failed.
At 4 p.m. one Japanese soldier rushed into the open and fired
a number of shots into the corner of the warehouse, causing
the defenders to take cover "with lightning speed." Although
wounded from the returning Chinese fire, the Japanese
attacker escaped. At one point, Chinese defenders chiseled
holes through the large black characters on the west wall for
use as vantage points. Subsequently, several Japanese soldiers
were shot before they realized the danger. Japanese machine
gunners returned fire, but had difficulty aiming due to the
holes being concealed by the black background of the characters.
Some Chinese sources report that during the height of the battle when a group of Japanese soldiers
had attempted to plant explosives at the base of the West Wall and breach it, a 21-year old Chinese
private named Chen Shusheng () strapped live grenades to himself and dove off the building
into the Japanese squad, allegedly killing twenty Japanese soldiers in a suicide attack. Chen
Shushengs attack is absent from Yang Ruifus memoirs, which only makes note of his soldiers
throwing grenades and firing mortars from the rooftop. Chen Desong also makes no mention of the
Suicide Attack
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

13/31

One of the Japanese armored
pinnaces (boats) being stopped by the
Chinese boom near the Zhejiang Bridge
American marines confront a
Japanese patrol in Shanghai, 1937. The
International Settlement was considered
a neutral zone on the Shanghai
battlefield.
suicide bombing, only mentioning the throwing of grenades. However, in Li Chunlins "Recalling the
Isolated Soldiers of Sihang in Shanghai," there was indeed a Chen Shusheng who carried out a
suicide bombing against the Japanese army. Historian Stephen Robinson argues that accounts
accuracy was plausible, noting that the Chinese had used suicide attacks many times before during the
Battle of Shanghai, such as the case of a soldier in the 36th Division destroying a Japanese tank with
an explosive belt, killing himself in the process.
At around 3 p.m., two Japanese pinnaces carrying some 30
marines attempted to flank the warehouse from the river, but
were stopped by a makeshift boom fashioned out of Chinese
junks at the Zhejiang (North Chekiang) Road Bridge. The
Japanese claimed that they were heading up the creek to assist
the Shanghai Fire Brigade, but were suspected by the British
to attack on the Sihang Warehouse. British troops in the
Settlement refused to move the boom due to the violation of
the British Settlement sector, and escorted the Japanese
sailors back at 4:30p.m.
In the evening, according to Yang Ruifu, the Japanese
launched a night attack using an excavator, and tried to dig a
tunnel towards the warehouse in conjunction with tank
assaults. During this days battle, Chinese citizens across the
river helped the soldiers by writing on large posters, warning
of the Japanese armys movements.
The Japanese launched a new wave of attacks at 7 a.m. on
October 30. There were fewer infantry assaults at the
warehouse this time; the Japanese attack was mainly
concentrated artillery fire. Because of the sturdy construction
and the abundance of sandbags and materials with which to
fortify and mend the warehouse, the defenders were able to the repair the warehouse while the
Japanese tried to destroy it. Artillery fire was so rapid that Yang Ruifu estimated there was
approximately one shell every second.
Japanese shells created holes in the windowless western wall, which enabled Chinese defenders to
return fire at Japanese positions. A western journalist witnessed the fighting and noted that a second
Chinese flag had been hoisted above the roof alongside the original flag. Japanese machine guns
continued to shoot at the walls and windows of the warehouse, whilst the Chinese defenders fired back
with rifles.
Evening attacks
October 30
Renewed Japanese attacks
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

14/31

Sihang Warehouse burns during the
Japanese artillery barrage, October 30
(Taken by Royal Welsh Fusilier John
Montgomery)
Major General Alexander Telfer-
Smollett, who would conduct negotiations
for the retreat, poses with British officials,
soldiers and Shanghai Municipal Police.
Mid-1937.
According to a letter written by Xie Jinyuan to Soong Mei-
Ling, the Chinese defenders had been harassed constantly by
Japanese snipers, and Chinese casualties were rising after the
Japanese began bombarding the warehouse with heavy
artillery. Ricocheting shells and shrapnel caused a number of
casualties among the defenders, with the warehouse walls
inside showing signs of a potential collapse under the
Japanese artillery.
Later that day on October 30, a Japanese naval officer
announced at a press conference that the Japanese had made
every effort to persuade the Chinese troops to surrender, but
"all overtures tendered in a spirit of humanitarianism had
been disregarded." Another Japanese military spokesman
declared that "They must be destroyed," and another officer similarly stated "We will never let them
escape alive." Rear Admiral Tadao Honda, a Japanese naval attach, declared at a press
conference that the Japanese would dislodge the Chinese from the warehouse, citing a "stout,
stubborn refusal to surrender," further claiming that everything had been done to "spare the lives of
the defenders in the true Samurai spirit, but we must make a final assault now."
By this point in the battle, British and American officers had made multiple attempts to persuade the
Chinese to leave the warehouse and accept internment. Major Harrison of the Royal Welsh Fusiliers
declared that he had "offered to allow them sanctuary in the settlement provided that they laid down
their arms," and stated "they replied that they preferred to die." A similar response was received by
Brigadier General John Beaumont of the United States Marines stationed in the settlement, who upon
offering the Chinese sanctuary, received the reply "Let the Japanese try to escort us to safety." In a
dispatch to Colonel Alexander Telfer-Smollet, commander of the British forces, Xie declared that only
Chiang Kai-Shek could order his battalion to leave.
The foreigners in the concessions in Shanghai did not want
the site of combat to be so close to them. With that
consideration in mind, and faced with pressure from the
Japanese, they agreed to try to convince the Chinese to cease
resisting. On the 29th they submitted a petition to the
Nationalist Government to stop the fighting "for humanitarian
concerns."
Chiang Kai-Shek had received hundreds of telegrams urging
him to save the battalion, as well as requests from Anglo-
American commanders to not sacrifice his troops. By October
30, Chiang had decided that the 1st Battalion was "too
valuable to spare," and because he considered the objectives of
the defenders fulfilled, formally authorized a withdrawal
through the 88th Division chief-of-staff officer Zhang
Boting.
Chinese decision to retreat
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

15/31

The southern wall of Sihang
Warehouse as seen from Blockhouse F,
occupied by British soldiers. One British
silhouette is visible.
A meeting was arranged with the British general Telfer-Smollett through the commandant of
Shanghai Auxiliary Police (), Yang Hu (), and it was decided the 524th would retreat
to the foreign concessions and then rejoin the rest of the 88th Division, which had been fighting in
west Shanghai. Yang Hu requested assistance from the British Army, to which Telfer-Smollett
agreed.
When informed on his superiors decision over telephone, Xie disagreed, wishing to remain in the
warehouse and fight to the last man. Only after an argument did Zhang Boting finally convince Xie to
retreat.
In the late night of October 30 at around 10 p.m., the Japanese moved their artillery even closer to the
warehouse and intensified their bombardment of the building. Observers across the creek watched the
Japanese batteries, four 75-mm guns, fire intense barrages, which were only broken by intermittent
pauses during which a Japanese searchlight would move around the wall to inspect the damage. A
Chinese soldier attempted to destroy the searchlight by hurling a hand grenade from a window, but it
fell short.
The Japanese bombardment became so intense that British
soldiers on the Lese Bridge had to abandon their positions for
their own safety. The Japanese also began to fire on the
warehouse with heavy machine guns and hand grenades,
scoring direct hits on the stronghold. Because the Japanese
were firing towards the south, several shells missed and
landed into the Settlement, one hitting the North-China Daily
News building and injuring three Chinese civilians. A number
of combat casualties was reported to have been sustained
during the fighting in the early dawn, although a precise figure
could not be calculated.
As the Japanese barrage continued, the Chinese began their breakout near midnight. To reach the
British settlement, the Chinese soldiers had to run across 20 yards over the New Lese Bridge whilst
being exposed to Japanese fire. The Chinese planned to send the wounded first, followed by the 1st
Company and Machine Gun Company in small groups under Xie Jinyuan, then by the 2nd and 3rd
Companies under Yang Ruifu.
To cover the retreat, the Chinese formed a rearguard of a platoon from the 1st company along with
some twenty-seven troops too heavily wounded to be moved easily; these men agreed to stay behind to
man heavy machine guns and cover the remaining forces. During the retreat, Western journalists
Final Japanese assault on Sihang Warehouse
October 31
Chinese retreat from Sihang Warehouse
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

16/31

Major Yang Ruifu who played a major
part in the Chinese defense. He was
wounded in the leg during the retreat.
Soldiers of the 1st Battalion with
British soldiers in the International
Settlement following their retreat
observed the Chinese rearguard exchanging gunfire with Japanese soldiers from seven "rifle-ports" in
the Warehouses west wall, occasionally throwing hand grenades at Japanese soldiers trying to
approach and enter the building.
To conceal their movements, the Chinese defenders evacuated
in a gradual manner, moving every now and then in groups of
twos and threes or alone. Each time, a Japanese machine gun
posted near the north end of the bridge would open fire.
However, the darkness and extreme confusion near the
warehouse meant only a few Chinese were hit before they
reached the British lines. Among them was Yang Ruifu, who
was shot through the left leg while crossing, but managed to
limp the remaining distance on his good leg.
Upon reaching the International Settlement, the Chinese
escapees were greeted by British soldiers who shook hands
with them and congratulated their courage. Major-General
Telfer-Smollett, the commander of the Royal Welsh Fusiliers
at the bridge, received the Chinese soldiers and remarked that
"I have never seen anything greater." Whether or not British soldiers opened fire in support of the
Chinese retreat is unknown. British travellers W.H. Auden and Christopher Isherwood encountered
rumors in 1938 of British troops returning fire against the Japanese, putting a machine gun out of
action. Similarly, Zhang Boting and Major Shangguan Zhibiao claimed the British had assisted in
eliminating one of the four Japanese machine guns near the North Railway Station. Stephen
Robinson claims that British soldiers probably did open fire, citing their obvious sympathies with the
Chinese defenders and their anger over the deaths of four Royal Ulster Riflemen killed by Japanese
shelling two days prior.
As the Chinese escaped, a Japanese column headed by a tank attempted to cut off the retreat by
blocking the road. Platoon commander Yang Yangzheng attacked the column with a machine gun, but
was wounded when the tank fired a shell at him, destroying his left eye with shrapnel. Yang was then
dragged half-conscious across the creek by his comrades.
By 2am, the last troops in Sihang Warehouse had retreated
into the settlement safely, with dozens of wounded troops and
Yang Huimins flag being carried out along with 400 rifles, 24
light machine guns, 6 heavy machine guns and ammunition
boxes, many of which were still hot from combat. Some 50
wounded Chinese soldiers were taken by British ambulances
to various hospitals to be treated for their injuries including
Yang Ruifu.
By this point in the battle, the warehouse had caught fire from
the bombardment. A Japanese Special Naval Landing Party
was subsequently reported to be in possession of the
building.
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

17/31

Men of the 1st Battalion in the
Settlement
Troops of the Shanghai SNLF 10th
Battalion "Haji Unit" celebrate outside of
the Shanghai North Railway Station in
Zhabei.
Japanese marines patrol the ruined
area north of Sihang Warehouse.
According to Western newspapers, the number of Chinese
casualties during the retreat were estimated between two and
six killed, and ten to twenty-four wounded. The American
Consul General at Shanghai reported some 300 Chinese
survivors had crossed to the British lines and laid down their
arms and that several buildings in the downtown district were
hit by Japanese shells during the fighting. Another
western observer that 327 soldiers had escaped unhurt,
another 28 wounded, claiming the survivors had stated they
had left 100 comrades killed within the building.
However, the vast majority of the Chinese defenders had
escaped alive, some 377 men and officers in total including
both Xie Jinyuan and Yang Ruifu.
At 
5:05 
AM 
on
October 27, 1937, the
Imperial 
Japanese
Navys 
Shanghai
Special Naval Landing
Force 
(Shanghai
SNLF) ordered their
forces to launch a
general 
assault 
on
Zhabei. 
The
Shanghai 
SNLF
moved 
quickly
through Zhabei, with
the Haji and Sano Units attacking the North Szechuan Road
area. By 6:55 AM, Hajis men had succeeded in occupying the
Pantheon Theatre and moved to capture the North Railway
Station. The North Railway Station fell to the Naval Landing
Forces at 7:20 AM, with the Japanese Naval Ensign hoisted atop the Railway Administration Bureau
ten minutes later. At 9:20 AM, Haji and Sanos forces advanced into the Zhabei Pocket to sweep out
remaining resistance.
By 3:30 PM, four troops from the Naval Landing Forces Kobayashi Company had become pinned
down by a rainfall of Chinese grenades while attempting to clear the route to attack the Sihang
Warehouse. After sustaining wounds from grenade shrapnel, the troops retreated into a trench.
Kobayashi dispatched three more of his men to rescue the troops, who managed to evacuate their
comrades to safety but suffered wounds as well. Company Commander Kobayashi himself was
also seriously wounded by an enemy grenade while clearing out the Zhabei Pocket.
Japanese Accounts of Events
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

18/31

Two photos taken of Japanese forces
positioned north of Sihang Warehouse.
The Chinese flag is visible in the top,
Japanese troops aim at the building in
the bottom.
Commander of the Shanghai Special
Naval Landing Force 10th Battalion
Lieutenant-Commander Haji Kitaro and
his adjutant outside of Sihang
Warehouse, Shanghai, circa November
1937
By around 6 PM Zhabei had largely fallen to the Japanese, with the exception of the Four Banks Joint
Warehouse (Sihang Warehouse), where the Shanghai SNLF reported approximately 800 enemy
troops to still be held up at.
The Japanese initially advised the troops held up in Sihang Warehouse to surrender, but by the early
hours of October 31 with their demands still unmet and signs of the defenders making an escape into
the British defense sector of the International Settlement, the Japanese decided to attack the
warehouse. On October 31 at 0115 hours the Imperial Japanese Navy confirmed sightings of Chinese
troops evacuating into the International Settlement and began to bombard the warehouse with
artillery fire thirty minutes later. At 0300 hours, SNLF troops stormed the Sihang Warehouse and
within ten minutes had completely swept the warehouse of enemy troops and occupied the building.
After securing the warehouse, the Imperial Japanese Navy reported roughly 80 corpses of fallen
Chinese troops and a number of weapons to be inside.
The Chinese casualties
from the battle were
disputed. Xie Jinyuan
stated in an interview
on November 2 that of
the 410 defenders, 10
had been killed and 30
wounded, 
but
later 
revised 
this
figure 
to 
420
defenders 
present
with 10 killed and 37
wounded. Immediate newspapers claimed between 100
and 
200 
Chinese 
soldiers 
had 
been 
killed 
in 
the
fighting.
Stephen Robinson calculated that since 377 defenders had
retreated (along with the 10 wounded men evacuated earlier), and some 420 defenders had been
present, the Chinese "death toll was likely higher [than 10] though probably fewer than 50 men," with
33 men killed or missing from the battalion roster following the retreat. A similar figure is given
by Micheal Clodfelter, who claims 34 Chinese soldiers were killed in action defending the
Warehouse. According to 88th Division commander Sun Yuanliangs report on October 31, 1937,
the battalion had suffered 89 casualties, including 35 killed and 54 wounded.
Casualties
Chinese
Casualties
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

19/31

A Japanese marine stands guard
outside the damaged Sihang Warehouse
after its capture. Early November.
The damaged Sihang Warehouse
following its capture by the Haji and
Hayasaka Units of the Naval Landing
Force.
The Imperial Japanese Navy reported finding around 80 dead
Chinese soldiers in the warehouse, but declared finding 100
corpses to the press. Japanese officials also publicly
claimed some 700 bodies of Chinese soldiers were left in
Zhabei, and that they had captured another 200 enemy troops
whilst only suffering 10 wounded soldiers themselves in the
entire battle. The same report claimed that Japanese forces
were forced to execute some twenty Chinese prisoners in self-
defense.
Immediately after the retreat, Commander Xie reported to the
Chinese newspaper Zhongyang Ribao that over 100 Japanese troops had been killed by his
defenders. 88th Division commander Sun Yuanliang, who had subordinate officers present near the
battle, stated that "enemy corpses in the vicinity of Sihang Warehouse totaled over two hundred
approximately." with Xie Jimin giving the same figure, "more than 200 enemy troops were killed
and countless ones were wounded. Two enemy tanks were also destroyed and two more were
damaged. The number of enemies was the sum of the daily counts obtained by observation posts."
Report of losses from Western sources vary, the Shanghai-
based 
North 
China 
Herald 
made 
note 
of 
Japanese
casualties, while others such as the November 2 edition
of the West Australian newspaperwhich used using mail
received from employees on leave in Shanghaireported the
Japanese attackers had suffered heavy losses attempting to
capture the warehouse, primarily from rifles, machine guns,
grenades and mortars. The October 30 edition of the
Mercury also reported that "many Japanese" had been killed
in failed assaults on the fortified building. Australian
military historian Stephen Robinson also writes that over 200
Japanese were killed in the fighting, of which the majority
were suffered by the 3rd "Lucky" Division, with a handful of
Japanese marines killed in the fighting.
Relevant records from the Imperial Japanese Navy reported a total of forty-two wounded amongst the
SNLF during the advance on Zhabei from October 27 to 31, of which three were fatally wounded,
including sailors Kitadani and Onuki and Warrant Officer Tanaka. Within this figure, four sustained
their injuries during the final assault on Sihang Warehouse on October 31. One of them, Warrant
Officer Tanaka, was shot outside of the warehouse by a Chinese machine gunner during the retreat on
October 30 later died from his injuries on November 2, 1937.[Note 2] Tanks and
armored cars from the Special Naval Landing Forces Armored Unit were recorded as participating in
the advance on Zhabei but not on the assault on Sihang Warehouse. The commander of the
Armored Unit, Lieutenant Yoshino Shozo noted in his memoirs that his unit advanced to Zhenru
Station during the Zhabei Offensive and does not mention damage to or losses of any of their tanks
and armored vehicles at Sihang Warehouse.
Japanese Casualties
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

20/31

Nine men and officers of the 1st
Battalion photographed in Chongqing,
after their escape via Nanjing. 1943.
Chiang Kai-shek promoted every defender by a rank and
awarded Xie Jinyuan and Yang Ruifu the Order of Blue Sky
and White Sun. Major Yang Ruifu was wounded and
hospitalized during the retreat. Thus, he was allowed to leave
the camp and returned to the Chinese army, assigned to
another position.
From November 1, 1937, until December 18, 1941, the soldiers
of the Chinese battalion were held in the British concession,
during which they received many visits from the citizens of
Shanghai. On the morning of August 11, 1938, to
commemorate the day the 88th divisions march from Wuxi to
Shanghai, the battalion raised the national flag in spite of the
head of the British concession who had forbidden the flying of the flag in fear the Japanese army
might see it. The Shanghai Municipal Council quickly sent in 300 British soldiers to surround the
camp and 400 Italian soldiers to spread out along Jinyuan Road for security. A team of White Russian
soldiers also rushed into the camp and fired machine guns at the unarmed battalion, killing 4 and
injuring another 11. The White Russian soldiers then withdrew. At night on the same day, another
team of White Russian soldiers forced the Chinese soldiers into several ambulances and imprisoned
them in the Central Bank at The Bund. Citizens of Shanghai went on a strike for three days to demand
the battalion be returned to the camp at the Jinyuan Road. The Shanghai Municipal Council had no
choice but to agree. However, the flag was confiscated to ensure no such incident would happen again.
On September 18, 1940, a sergeant of the Chinese battalion was shot dead and another private was
wounded by a White Russian soldier guarding the camp due to tense situations. The perpetrator was
sentenced to 15 years in prison.
On April 24, 1941, the officers and soldiers of the battalion were gathered at the courtyard for the
usual morning exercise. Four of the men who had been bribed by Wang Jingweis collaborationist
government took the opportunity to assassinate Colonel Xie Jinyuan, stabbing him at his vital spots.
Regimental attach Shangguan Zhibiao rushed to rescue the colonel but was also seriously injured. All
four men were caught and sent to the concession authorities for trial. After Colonel Xies death, as
many as 250,000 Shanghai citizens visited the camp to pay tribute.
On December 8, 1941, the Japanese navy bombed Pearl Harbor and the Pacific War broke out. On
December 28, the Japanese army broke into the camp and captured all the Chinese soldiers. The
battalion was initially detained in Baoshan and forced to do hard labor. Because the battalion was not
compliant, the Japanese army transported them to a prisoner camp in Nanjing. After
hearing about the terrible conditions of the prisoners held there including live experiments and
dissections conducted by the Japanese biological unit in Central China, 12 soldiers from the battalion
attempted to escape the prison camp but were caught by the guards as they ran to the Zhonghua Gate.
All 12 were bayonetted.
Aftermath
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

21/31

Eventually, the Japanese army began the process of separating the men. 50 were sent to the outside of
Guanghua Gate (), 60 were sent to Xiaolingwei, 100 were sent to Hangzhou, 50 were sent to
Yuxikou (), and another 50 were sent to the South Seas Mandate. The rest were still detained in
the camp and forced to do hard labor. On November 6, 1942, most of the prisoners held outside
Guanghua Gate escaped when they were exchanged with the prisoners at Xiaolingwei. They hid in
Xiaomaoshan () for several days. Some stayed to conduct guerilla warfare and some detoured
through Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Hunan, and Guizhou to return to Chongqing. In most of the
prisoner camps the men of the battalion were held in, the prisoners endured poor treatment which
resulted in many deaths and there were sporadic cases of killings by the guards. Before the end of the
war, 
many 
soldiers 
from 
the 
battalion 
were 
able 
to 
escape 
through 
different
means.
After the war, more than 100 survivors from the battalion returned to Shanghai from all over China
and Southeast Asia. Among them, there were 34 survivors who were sent to Papua New Guinea by the
Japanese army for hard labor. Out of the original 50 soldiers of the battalion sent to the Rabaul
prisoner camp, 14 died due to poor treatment and another 2 had to stay in Rabaul due to serious
injuries. The remaining 34 were repatriated by the Australian government to Shanghai on August 24,
1946.
There is a lack of official archival materials and detailed battle reports regarding the battle of Sihang
Warehouse from the Chinese side. The "History of the Anti-Japanese War: Battle of Shanghai" which
recorded the battle from the Chinese armys perspective with detailed day-by-day battle progress had
only a small passage for the battle of Sihang Warehouse. Chen Chengs detailed Battlefield
Diary of the Battle of Shanghai made no mention of the battle.
In August 1985, Sihang Warehouse was designated as a cultural heritage site, and would be designated
as such once more by the Shanghai Municipal Government in April 2014. Following renovations, on
August 13, 2015, the Sihang Warehouse Memorial Museum was established in the western half of the
building to commemorate the battle.
In 2020, the Chinese historical war drama film The Eight Hundred, based on the battle, was
released.
Legacy
In film
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Defense of Sihang Warehouse - Wikipedia

22/31

