Second Sino-Japanese War
Part of the interwar period, and the Asian-Pacific
Theater of World War II[a]
Clockwise: Japanese landing forces in gas
masks during the Battle of Shanghai NRA
forces on the Great Wall Nanjing Massacre
victims on the Qinhuai River shore Chinese
machine gun nest at the Battle of Wuhan
Japanese Mitsubishi Ki-21 in the bombing of
Chongqing Chinese Expeditionary Force
marching in India
Date
7 July 1937[b] 2 September 1945
(8years, 1month, 3weeks and 5days)
Location
Mainland China Burma Korea
Indochina Taiwan
Result
Chinese victory
Territorial
changes
China recovers territories lost to Japan
since the Treaty of Shimonoseki, as well
as retaking de facto control from the
Japanese puppet states
Belligerents
Second Sino-Japanese War
The Second Sino-Japanese War, known in
China as the War of Resistance Against
Japan,[a] was fought between the Republic of
China and the Empire of Japan and its puppet
states between 1937 and 1945, following a period
of conflict localized to Manchuria that started in
1931. It is often regarded as the beginning
of World War II in Asia, as the wars became
heavily intertwined after Japan attacked the
United States. It was the largest Asian war in the
20th century.
On 18 September 1931, the Japanese staged the
Mukden incident, a false flag event fabricated to
justify 
their 
invasion 
of 
Manchuria 
and
establishment of the puppet state of Manchukuo.
This is sometimes marked as the beginning of
the war. From 1931 to 1937, China and
Japan engaged in skirmishes, including in
Shanghai and in Northern China. Nationalist
and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) forces,
respectively led by Chiang Kai-shek and Mao
Zedong, had fought each other in the Chinese
Civil War since 1927. In late 1933, Chiang Kai-
shek encircled the Chinese Communists in an
attempt to finally destroy them, forcing the
Communists into the Long March, resulting in
the Communists losing around 90% of their
men. As a Japanese invasion became imminent,
Chiang eventually formed a United Front with
the Communists in 1936, a process that was
hastened by the Xian Incident.
The war is considered to have begun on 7 July
1937 after the Marco Polo Bridge incident near
Beijing, which escalated into full-scale Japanese
invasion of the rest of China. Following the
protracted Battle of Shanghai, the Japanese
captured the capital of Nanjing in 1937 and
perpetrated the Nanjing Massacre. After failing
 China
 Kuomintang
 Japan
 Manchukuo
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

1/55

Commanders and leaders
KMT:
 Chiang Kai-shek
 He Yingqin
 Chen Cheng
 Cheng Qian
 Xu Yongchang
CCP:
 Mao Zedong
 Zhu De
 Ye Ting
 Chen Yi
S.E.A.C.:
 Lord Mountbatten
 Joseph Stilwell
 Sun Li-jen
 Liao Yaoxiang
Imperial General HQ:
 Hirohito
 Kanin Kotohito
 Hajime Sugiyama
 Hideki Tojo
 Yoshijir Umezu
North China Area Army[g]:
 Hisaichi Terauchi
 Hayao Tada
Central China Area Army[h]:
 Iwane Matsui
 Otoz Yamada
China Expeditionary Army:
 Shunroku Hata
 Toshiz Nishio
 Yasuji Okamura
Units involved
See combatants
Strength
16 million+ total:436
Nationalists
1.7 million (1937)
2.6 million (1939)
5.7 million (1945)
Communists
640,000 (1937)
166,700 (1938)
488,744 (1940)
1.2 million (1945)
4.1 million total
Japan
600,000 (1937)
1,015,000 (1939)
1,124,900 (1945)
(excluding Manchuria and
Burma campaign)
Puppet states
900,0001,006,086
(1945)
Casualties and losses
Japanese medical data
to stop the Japanese capture of Wuhan in 1938,
Chinas de facto capital at the time, the
Nationalist government relocated to Chongqing
in the Chinese interior. After the Sino-Soviet
Non-Aggression Pact, Soviet aid bolstered the
National Revolutionary Army and Air Force. By
1939, after Chinese victories at Changsha and
with Japans lines of communication stretched
deep into the interior, the war reached a
stalemate. The Japanese were unable to defeat
CCP forces in Shaanxi, who waged a campaign of
sabotage and guerrilla warfare. In November
1939, Nationalist forces launched a large scale
winter offensive, and in August 1940, CCP forces
launched the Hundred Regiments Offensive in
central China. In retaliation, Japanese forces
implemented massive scorched earth policies in
North and Central China, killing millions of
civilians.
In April 1941, Soviet aid was halted with the
SovietJapanese Neutrality Pact. In December
1941, Japan launched a surprise attack on Pearl
Harbor and declared war on the United States
and the United Kingdom. The US increased its
aid to China under the Lend-Lease Act,
becoming its main financial and military
supporter. With Burma cut off, the United States
Army Air Forces airlifted material over the
Himalayas. In 1944, Japan launched Operation
Ichi-Go, the invasion of Henan and Changsha. In
1945, the Chinese Expeditionary Force resumed
its advance in Burma and completed the Ledo
Road linking India to China. China launched
large counteroffensives in South China, repulsed
a failed Japanese invasion of West Hunan, and
recaptured 
Japanese 
occupied 
regions 
of
Guangxi.
Japan formally surrendered on 2 September
1945, 
following 
the 
atomic 
bombings 
of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Soviet declaration of
war and subsequent invasion of Manchuria,
Inner Mongolia and Korea. The war resulted in
the deaths of around 20 million people, mostly
Chinese civilians. Japan carried out the largest
 Chinese
Communist Party
 Soviet Volunteer
Group
 American
Volunteer Group
 United States[c]
China Burma India
theater[d]
 Wang Jingwei
regime[e]
 Mengjiang[f]
 North China
Political Council
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

2/55

Official Nationalist
data
1,319,958 killed
1,761,335 wounded
130,116 missing
3,211,409 total
casualties
Western Estimate
2,000,000+ killed[i]
Communist data
160,603161,067 killed
285,669290,467
wounded
87,208 missing
45,989 POWs
446,736[j] to 584,267
total
casualties
Total
3.85 million
casualties
1 million+ captured
266,8001,000,000
POWs dead
455,700700,000 military
dead[k][l]
900,000 wounded
22,293+ captured[m]
1.5~ million total casualties[l]
Puppet state forces
288,140574,560 dead
742,000 wounded
Middle estimate: 960,000
dead and wounded
Total
2.43.0 million casualties[l][n]
12,000,000+ civilian deaths
14,000,00022,000,000 total deaths
a. From December 1941.
b. Initial earlier clashes began on September 18, 1931
c. From December 1941.
d. Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek was the Supreme
Allied Commander in the China Theater, meaning
U.S. forces technically fell under his overall
command. In practice, U.S. commanders often
broke the chain of command; see #Tensions with
Allied commanders
e. Formed from the Reformed and Provisional
Governments of the Republic of China in 1 March
1940, which absorbed the East Hebei Autonomous
Government and Great Way Government in 1
February 1938 and 3 May 1938
f. Direct puppet state prior to March 1940, officially
called the Mongol United Autonomous Government
between 1937 and 1939.
attacks in the history of biological warfare,
causing at least 200,000 deaths, and used
chemical 
weapons 
including 
lethal 
blister
agents. China was recognized as one of the
Big Four Allied powers in WorldWarII and
one of the "Four Policemen", which formed the
foundation of the United Nations. It regained
Taiwan and became one of the five permanent
members of the United Nations Security
Council. The Chinese Civil War resumed
in 1946, ending with a communist victory and
the Proclamation of the Peoples Republic of
China in 1949, while the government of the
Republic of China relocated to Taiwan.
In both Chinas Mainland and Taiwan, the war is
most 
commonly 
known 
as 
the 
"War 
of
Resistance 
against 
Japanese 
Aggression"
(simplified Chinese: ; traditional
Chinese: ), and the name of it is usually
shortened to "Resistance against Japanese
Aggression" ( ) or the "War of Resistance"
(; ). The countries also use the
term "Eight Years War of Resistance" (;
), a traditional view which dates the
wars beginning to the Marco Polo Bridge
incident in 1937.
Since 2017, the Chinese Communist Partys
official view of Chinese historiography has held
the 18 September 1931 Japanese invasion of
Manchuria as the start of the" Fourteen Years
War of Resistance" ( ; 
). The 19311937 period is viewed as
the "partial" war, which includes the "Northeast
War of Resistance" ( ), while
19371945 is viewed as a period of "total"
war. This view of a fourteen-year war has
political significance because it provides more
recognition, internationally as China claims it
Names
Chinese
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

3/55

g. One of two army formations that ultimately merged
to form the China Expeditionary Army
h. One of two army formations that ultimately merged
to form the China Expeditionary Army
i. Rummel estimates Chinese losses at 3 to 4 million
dead and missing with another 500,000 captured,
with a combined total of over 10,000,000 military
casualties
j. From September 1937 until March 1945 (including
losses of the South China Anti-Japanese Column
from 1943 until March 1945). Does not include the
number of missing and POWs.
k. This number does not include Japanese killed by
Chinese forces in the Burma campaign and does
not include Japanese killed in Manchuria.
l. After July 1937; excluding Manchuria and Burma
m. Excluding more than 1 million who were disarmed
following the surrender of Japan
n. Including casualties of Japanese puppet forces.
Second Sino-Japanese War
Chinese name
TraditionalChinese 
SimplifiedChinese 
Literal meaning
War of Resistance against
Japanese Aggression
Transcriptions
Alternative name
TraditionalChinese 
SimplifiedChinese 
Literal meaning
War of Resistance
Transcriptions
Second alternative Chinese name
TraditionalChinese 
SimplifiedChinese 
Literal meaning
Eight Years War of
Resistance
Transcriptions
Third alternative Chinese name
fought the earliest and longest in a global
war, and domestically for the role of
northeast 
China 
in 
the 
War 
of
Resistance. The CCP also refers to the
conflict as a part of the "World Anti-Fascist
War", an alternate definition of World War
II.
In contemporary Japan, the name "JapanChina
War" (Japanese: , romanized: Nitch
Sens) is most commonly used because of its
perceived objectivity. Dating the beginning of the
war may also vary in Japanese context, with one
Japanese historiographical view regarding the
war as a "Fifteen-Year War" (Jyugonen Sens),
covering the period beginning with the invasion
of Manchuria through the atomic bombings, and
including both the war in China and the Pacific
war.
When the invasion of China proper began in earnest in
July 1937 near Beijing, the Empire of Japan used "The
North China Incident" (/, Hokushi
Jihen/Kahoku Jihen), and with the outbreak of the
Battle of Shanghai the following month, it was changed
to "The China Incident" (, Shina Jihen). The
word "incident" ( , jihen) was used by Japan, as
neither country had made a formal declaration of war at
the 
outbreak 
of 
hostility. 
From 
the 
Japanese
perspective, localizing these conflicts was beneficial in
preventing 
intervention 
from 
other 
countries,
particularly the United Kingdom and the United States,
which were its primary source of petroleum and steel
respectively. A formal expression of these conflicts
would potentially lead to an American embargo in
accordance with the Neutrality Acts of the 1930s. In
addition, due to Chinas fractured political status, Japan
often claimed that China was no longer a recognizable
political entity on which war could be declared.
In Japanese propaganda, the invasion of China became
a holy war ( , seisen), the first step of the "eight
corners of the world under one roof" slogan (,
Hakk ichiu). In 1940, Japanese prime minister
Japanese
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

4/55

TraditionalChinese 
SimplifiedChinese 
Literal meaning
Fourteen Years War of
Resistance
Transcriptions
Fourth alternative Chinese name
TraditionalChinese 
SimplifiedChinese 
Literal meaning
Second Sino-Japanese
War
Transcriptions
Fifth alternative Chinese name
TraditionalChinese ()
SimplifiedChinese ()
Literal meaning
(Japanese) War of
Aggression against China
Transcriptions
Japanese name
Kanji



Hiragana



Katakana



Transcriptions
Fumimaro Konoe launched the Taisei Yokusankai.
When both sides formally declared war in December
1941, the name was replaced by "Greater East Asia War"
(, Daita Sens).
Although the Japanese government still uses the term
"China Incident" in formal documents, the word
Shina is considered derogatory by China and therefore
the media in Japan often paraphrase with other
expressions like "The JapanChina Incident" ( 
/ , Nikka Jiken/Nisshi Jiken), which were
used by media as early as the 1930s. The name "Second
Sino-Japanese War" is not commonly used in Japan as
the China it fought a war against in 1894 to 1895 was led
by the Qing dynasty, and thus is called the Qing-
Japanese War (, NisshinSens), rather than
the First Sino-Japanese War.
The First Sino-Japanese War (18941895) concluded
with the defeat of China, then under the rule of the Qing
dynasty, by Japan. Under the Treaty of Shimonoseki,
China was forced to cede Taiwan and recognize the full
and complete independence of Korea. Japan also
annexed the Senkaku Islands, which Japan claims were
uninhabited, in early 1895 as a result of its victory at the
end of the war. Japan had also attempted to annex the
Liaodong Peninsula following the war, though was
forced to return it to China following the Triple
Intervention by France, Germany, and Russia.
In 1905, Japan defeated the Russian Empire in the Russo-Japanese War, gaining Dalian and southern
Sakhalin and establishing a protectorate over Korea. In 1915, Japan issued the Twenty-One Demands
to extort further political and commercial privilege from China, which was accepted by the regime of
Yuan Shikai. Following World War I, Japan acquired the German Empires sphere of influence in
Shandong province, leading to nationwide anti-Japanese protests and mass demonstrations in
China.
Background
Japanese expansion
Warlord Era
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

5/55

The Qing dynasty was on the brink of collapse due to internal revolts and the imposition of the
unequal treaties, while Japan had emerged as a great power through its efforts to modernize. In
1911, factions of the Qing Army uprose against the government, staging a revolution that swept across
Chinas southern provinces. The Qing responded by appointing Yuan Shikai, commander of the
loyalist Beiyang Army, as temporary prime minister in order to subdue the revolution. Yuan,
wanting to remain in power, compromised with the revolutionaries, and agreed to abolish the
monarchy and establish a new republican government, under the condition he be appointed president
of China. The new Beiyang government of China was proclaimed in March 1912, after which Yuan
Shikai began to amass power for himself. In 1913, the parliamentary political leader Song Jiaoren was
assassinated; it is generally believed Yuan Shikai ordered the assassination.
Yuan Shikai then forced the parliament to pass a bill to strengthen the power of the president and
sought to restore the imperial system, becoming the new emperor of China. However, there was little
support for an imperial restoration among the general population, and protests and demonstrations
soon broke out across the country. Yuans attempts at restoring the monarchy triggered the National
Protection War, and Yuan Shikai was overthrown after only a few months. In the aftermath of Shikais
death in June 1916, control of China fell into the hands of the Beiyang Army leadership.
The Beiyang government was a civilian government in name, but in practice it was a military
dictatorship with a different warlord controlling each province of the country. China was reduced
to a fractured state. As a result, Chinas prosperity began to wither and its economy declined. The
country remained fragmented under the Beiyang Government and was unable to resist foreign
incursions. This instability presented an opportunity for nationalistic politicians in Japan to press
for territorial expansion.
For the purpose of unifying China and defeating the regional warlords, the Kuomintang (KMT) in
Guangzhou launched the Northern Expedition from 1926 to 1928 with limited assistance from the
Soviet Union. The National Revolutionary Army (NRA) formed by the Kuomintang swept through
southern and central China until it was checked in Shandong, where confrontations with the Japanese
garrison escalated into armed conflict. The conflicts were collectively known as the Jinan incident of
1928, during which time the Japanese military killed several Chinese officials and fired artillery shells
into Jinan. According to the investigation results of the Association of the Families of the Victims of
the Jinan massacre, it showed that 6,123 Chinese civilians were killed and 1,701 injured. Relations
between the Chinese Nationalist government and Japan severely worsened as a result of the Jinan
incident.
Zhang Zuolin and his Fengtian clique, despite being supported by Japan, failed to defend against the
National Revolutionary Army approaching Beijing. Zhang Zuolin decided to retreat back to
Manchuria, where he was assassinated by the Kwantung Army in 1928. His son, Zhang Xueliang,
took over as the leader of the Fengtian clique in Manchuria. Later in the same year, Zhang declared his
allegiance to the Nationalist government in Nanjing under Chiang Kai-shek, and consequently, China
was nominally reunified under one government.
Nationalist reunification
Start of the Chinese Civil War
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

6/55

Japanese troops entering Shenyang
during the Mukden Incident
In 1930, the Central Plains War broke out across China, involving regional commanders who had
fought in alliance with the Kuomintang during the Northern Expedition, and the Nanjing government
under Chiang. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) previously fought openly against the Nanjing
government after the Shanghai massacre of 1927, and they continued to expand during this protracted
civil war. The Kuomintang government focused its efforts on suppressing the Chinese Communists
instead of opposing the Japanese. Chiang Kai-shek reasoned that only a unified command could resist
foreign powers, leading to his defensive policy of "first internal pacification, then external resistance"
(Chinese: ), through its encirclement campaigns against the Communists.
Following the 1931 Mukden Incident, Nationalist planners identified critical vulnerabilities in the
Kuomintangs urban-centric economic base, particularly the concentration of heavy industry in
vulnerable coastal cities. Chiang Kai-sheks policy of internal pacification was not just a military
campaign against the communists, but also a major economic reorganization project. Recognizing that
China lacked the industrial base for a localized total war in 1930, the Nationalist government sought
to consolidate the southwestern interior as a strategic base while attempting to modernize the national
currency and military before a full-scale confrontation with Japan became inevitable. To address these
weaknesses, the central government initiated projects to modernize and solidify the Kuomintangs
control over the national currency and industrial structure, while planning for the eventual
redistribution of factories and arsenals to the interior.
Nationalist forces prioritized the destruction of Communist soviets, driving the CCP out of their
enclaves and onto the Long March to Yanan by 1934. On 1 August 1935, the Communist Party
issued the August First Declaration. It called for the creation of a United Front of all Chinese
parties, organizations, and people of all circles, including overseas Chinese and ethnic minorities, to
oppose the Japanese. A December 1936 kidnapping by two Nationalist Generals, the Xian
Incident, forced Chiang Kai-shek to hasten negotiations for a United Front with the Chinese
Communists to oppose Japan, a process finalized at the outbreak of war.
The chronic warfare in China provided excellent opportunities
for Japan, which saw Manchuria as a limitless supply of raw
materials, a market for its manufactured goods (now excluded
from the markets of many Western countries as a result of
Depression-era tariffs), and a protective buffer state against
the Soviet Union in Siberia. As a result, the Japanese Army
was widely prevalent in Manchuria immediately following the
Japanese victory in the Russo-Japanese War in 1905, where
Japan gained control over the South Manchuria Railway Zone
and the Kwantung Leased Territory in Manchuria.
Pre-war events
Invasion of Manchuria
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

7/55

As a result of their strengthened position, by 1915 Japan had negotiated a significant amount of
economic privilege in the region by pressuring Yuan Shikai, the president of the Republic of China at
the time. With a widened range of economic privileges in Manchuria, Japan began focusing on
developing and protecting matters of economic interests. This included railroads, businesses, natural
resources, and a general control of the territory. The Japanese Kwantung Army was established in
1919 to protect these interests. Both the 1921 and 1927 Imperial Eastern Region Conferences
reconfirmed Japans commitment to be the dominant power in the Northeast
While the Japanese Army initially justified its presence by stating that it was simply protecting its own
economic interests, militarists in the army began pushing for an expansion of influence, leading to the
Kwangtung Army assassinating the warlord of Manchuria, Zhang Zuolin, on 4 June 1928. This
bombing of Zhangs train was carried out by officers on their own initiative and stood in direct
opposition to the Tanaka cabinets official policy of maintaining good relations with Zhang, illustrating
the growing autonomy and civilian-military divide.
Following Zhangs death, his son Zhang Xueliang succeeded him, and aligned with Chiang Kai-sheks
Nanjing government through the Northeast Flag Replacement in December 1928, symbolically
unifying China. In July 1929, Zhang Xueliang moved to assert Chinese sovereignty by ousting Soviet
employees from the Chinese Eastern Railway (CER), provoking the five-month-long Sino-Soviet
conflict (1929). The Soviet Red Army forces decisively defeated Zhangs Northeastern Army, resulting
in the resumption of Soviet control over the railway and the severing of diplomatic relations between
Nanjing and Moscow. For Kwantung Army officers, the conflict demonstrated the military
vulnerability of the northeastern warlord forces. The conflict shook Japanese policy to the core and
reopened the Manchurian problem. By 1930, the Kwantung Army realized they faced a Red Army that
was only growing stronger. The time to act was drawing near and Japanese plans to conquer the
Northeast were accelerated. The subsequent instability and the erosion of Soviet influence during
the Great Depression left a power vacuum in Manchuria that the Kwantung Army sought to
exploit.
Kwantung Army Colonels Seishir Itagaki and Kanji Ishiwara independently decided to provoke the
invasion of Manchuria with the Mukden incident in September 1931. Kwantung Army soldiers set off a
bomb on the South Manchuria Railway in order to provoke an opportunity to act in "self defense".
Japan believed its rights in Manchuria, which had been established as a result of its victory in 1905 at
the end of the Russo-Japanese War, had been systematically violated and there were "more than 120
cases of infringement of rights and interests, interference with business, boycott of Japanese goods,
unreasonable taxation, detention of individuals, confiscation of properties, eviction, demand for
cessation of business, assault and battery, and the oppression of Korean residents".
After five months of fighting, Japan successfully occupied all of Manchuria, to the surprise of many.
Ishiwara himself expected to be arrested for insubordination, but instead was praised for his success.
He invented the Concordia Association to establish the puppet state of Manchukuo as an independent
country. The last Emperor of China, Puyi, was installed as its puppet ruler. Militarily too weak to
challenge Japan directly, China appealed to the League of Nations for help. The Leagues investigation
led to the publication of the Lytton Report, condemning Japan for its incursion into Manchuria,
causing Japan to withdraw from the League of Nations. No country took action against Japan beyond
tepid censure.
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

8/55

Chinese troops hold defensive
positions in Shanghai, January 1932.
From 1931 until summer 1937, the Nationalist Army under Chiang Kai-shek did little to oppose
Japanese encroachment into China:69 However, Chiang had recognized the incoming threat of a
Japanese invasion, and had secretly begun war preparations since 1932, such as creating the National
Defense Planning Council, recruiting German military advisors, and purchasing foreign arms.
Incessant fighting followed the Mukden Incident. In 1932,
Chinese and Japanese troops clashed in Shanghai during the
28 January battle. This resulted in the demilitarization of
Shanghai, which forbade the Chinese to deploy troops in their
own city. In Manchukuo, there was an ongoing campaign to
pacify the Anti-Japanese Volunteer Armies that arose from
widespread outrage over the policy of non-resistance to Japan.
On 15 April 1932, the Chinese Soviet Republic led by the
Communists declared war on Japan.
Under Chi Shi-ying and his protg Lo Ta-yus leadership, the
Kuomintang also established the Northeast Anti-Manchukuo
and Anti-Japanese Association as well as the September 18th
Alliance. These organizations developed an extensive underground intelligence network and
coordinated anti-Japanese activities in Manchuria.
In 1933, the Japanese attacked the Great Wall region. The Tanggu Truce established in its aftermath,
gave Japan control of Rehe Province, as well as a demilitarized zone between the Great Wall and
Beijing-Tianjin region. Japan aimed to create another buffer zone between Manchukuo and the
Chinese Nationalist government in Nanjing. Japan increasingly exploited Chinas internal conflicts to
reduce the strength of its fractious opponents.
Even years after the Northern Expedition, the political power of the Nationalist government was
limited to just the area of the Yangtze River Delta. Other sections of China were essentially in the
hands of local Chinese warlords. Japan sought various Chinese collaborators and helped them
establish governments friendly to Japan. This policy was called the Specialization of North China (
; hubitshha), more commonly known as the North China Autonomous Movement. The
northern provinces affected by this policy were Chahar, Suiyuan, Hebei, Shanxi, and Shandong.
This Japanese policy was most effective in the area of what is now Inner Mongolia and Hebei. In 1935,
under Japanese pressure, China signed the HeUmezu Agreement, which forbade the KMT to
conduct party operations in Hebei. In the same year, the ChinDoihara Agreement was signed
expelling the KMT from Chahar.
Thus, by the end of 1935 the Chinese government had essentially abandoned northern China. In its
place, the Japanese-backed East Hebei Autonomous Council and the HebeiChahar Political Council
were established. There in the empty space of Chahar the Mongol military government was formed on
12 May 1936. Japan provided all the necessary military and economic aid. Afterwards Chinese
volunteer forces continued to resist Japanese aggression in Manchuria, and Chahar and Suiyuan.
Sporadic Japanese encroachment
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

9/55

The viability of a Sino-Japanese partnership, initially pursued by Kki Hirota and Chinese Premier
Wang Jingwei, deteriorated rapidly due to domestic political developments in late 1935. In November
1935, the Nationalist government carried out a major currency reform, abandoning the silver standard
in favor of the managed Chinese National Currency. Backed by Great Britain and championed by
Finance Minister H. H. Kung (a prominent member of Chinas pro-Western faction), the reform
reduced Japanese economic leverage over Chinas northern provinces. Concurrently, Nanjings
primary advocates for negotiations with Japan were effectively removed from the political landscape:
an assassination attempt in November forced Wang Jingweis resignation, while key diplomats were
lost when Huang Fu retired and Tang Youren was assassinated in December.
The establishment of the Japanese-aligned East Hebei Autonomous Government under Yin Ruguang
had incited the December 9th Movement, rallying Chinese public opinion against Japan. Despite these
setbacks, the pro-appeasement alignment remained influential within the Nationalist government,
supported by the official Kuomintang policy of delaying conflict to buy time under what Chiang called,
"first internal pacification, then external resistance." General Song Zheyuans local appeasement
strategy in the north led to the establishment of the HebeiChahar Political Council.
By 1936, the failure of the North China Buffer State Strategy to create Japanese diplomatic leverage
and the fallout of the February 26 coup attempt in Tokyo opened the door for more negotiations. The
Japanese Army High Command aligned with the civilian government favored direct diplomatic
negotiations with Nanjing, moving away from the use of regional proxies. Sat Naotake, the Japanese
foreign minister in the Hayashi cabinet, strived to end the buffer state strategy and treat China as an
equal to avoid war.
Concurrently, the Chinese Communist Party capitalized on anti-Japanese sentiment and Chinese
nationalism, advocating for a nationwide ceasefire and resistance. This demand gained significant
popular support, as a ceasefire would halt Chiang Kai-sheks anti-communist encirclement campaigns.
During the Kawagoe-Chang Chun negotiations in the fall of 1936, Japanese Ambassador Shigeru
Kawagoe attempted to secure anti-communist cooperation, but Chinese Foreign Minister Zhang Qun
adopted a firmer stance, demanding the dissolution of the East Hebei Autonomous Government and
an end to smuggling as preconditions for normalization.
On the night of 7 July 1937, Chinese and Japanese troops exchanged fire in the vicinity of the Marco
Polo (or Lugou) Bridge about 16 km from Beijing. The initial confused and sporadic skirmishing
was escalated into the first full-scale battle weeks later. However, negotiations continued even past the
Battle of Shanghai with the Trautmann mediation and Nine Power Treaty Conference. Total war
would only commenced after the Battle of Nanking, when Fumimaro Konoe declared that Japan
would no longer negotiate with Chiang Kai-Shek. Unlike Japan, China was unprepared for total war
and had little military-industrial strength, no mechanized divisions, and few armoured forces.
Continued negotiations
Course of the war
1937: Outbreak of full-scale war
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

10/55

Chiang Kai-shek announced the
Kuomintang policy of resistance against
Japan at Lushan on 10 July 1937, three
days after the Marco Polo Bridge
Incident.
Soon after 1937, local Chinese guerilla forces organized spontaneously. These typically joined
either the Communist or Nationalist forces. Within the first year of full-scale war, Japanese
forces obtained victories in most major Chinese cities.
On 7 July, units of the Japanese China Garrison Army crossed
the border to conduct military exercises at night, claiming
Private Shimura Kikujiro went missing and demanded entry
to the walled city of Wanping. The Chinese garrison of the
29th Army refused. Fire was exchanged in the confusion. The
question of "who fired first" and provoked the incident is
highly contested, and the exact cause of this incident remains
unknown. Despite the initial fighting, a ceasefire was
negotiated on July 11 in Beijing. The local Japanese military
and General Qin Dechun agreed to a settlement: an apology,
the withdrawal of Chinese troops from Wanping, and better
control of "communists" in the area.
However, news of the ceasefire failed to reach the central
military command of either China or Japan immediately, and
both grew increasingly concerned. Chiang Kai-shek had
ordered four Central Army divisions to move into Hebei, even
though this violated the HeUmezu Agreement. The following
day, the Konoe cabinet held the Five Ministers Conference,
where the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff approved a
plan that authorized the deployment of three infantry
divisions from mainland Japan. Major General Ishiwara tried
to oppose the plan as he advocated a policy of non-expansion,
but eventually agreed as "to be prepared for any contingency if the situation becomes strained".
Although the eventual news of the ceasefire prevented outright war, the arrival of new divisions and
the resulting confusion caused tensions to rise. Military cable lines were constantly severed during the
tensions.
Since October 1936, Moscow continuously proposed a mutual security pact with China, but the deal
was never accepted, even after the December 1936 Xian Incident. On 5 June 1937, Soviet leader
Joseph Stalin again proposed a mutual security pact to China, but Foreign Minister Wang Chonghui
only submitted it to Chiang a day after the Marco Polo Bridge Incident. Chiang immediately tried to
accept the mutual security offer, but by then the USSR considered it too late and instead proposed a
non-aggression pact. On 16 July, U.S. Secretary of State Cordell Hull issued a public statement of
principles advocating for the "sanctity of treaties" and the "abstinence by all nations from use of
force." Chiang Kai-shek had been closely monitoring Western reactions, and relied on a long-term
strategy of obtaining support from the League of Nations and the world at large to punish Japan.
However, as American policy followed what Hull summed up as "keeping this country out of war," the
diplomatic signals were intentionally vague to retain impartiality.
Marco Polo Bridge incident
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

11/55

The CCPs formal declaration for KMT-CCP cooperation was drafted by Zhou Enlai on 4 July 1937 and
sent to the Nationalist government on 15 July, though it was not published until 22 September,
solidifying the basis for a Second United Front.
On 17 July, Chiang Kai-shek delivered the Lushan Statement, framing the incident as a struggle for the
nations survival and declaring that China had reached its "limit of endurance." Chiang outlined his
demands for peace to Japan, including that the 29th Army be allowed to move freely in the area.
This statement essentially transformed the local incident into a national cause of resistance.
Although Chiang was ready to accept the local ceasefire, he slowed the withdrawal from the area to
gauge international response. On 25 July, the Langfang Incident occurred when Chinese troops
engaged a Japanese communication repair unit. On 26 July, the Guanganmen Incident saw Japanese
troops fired upon while attempting to enter Peipings city gates to protect Japanese nationals. These
incidents led the Japanese China Garrison Army to abandon diplomatic efforts and launch a military
invasion.
On 28 July 1937, the IJA 20th Division and three independent combined brigades launched an
offensive against the Chinese 29th Army. The battle involved little combat within Beiping itself, as
General Song Zheyuan ordered a general withdrawal of the 29th Army to avoid its total destruction.
The Japanese captured the city on July 29 after the Chinese forces withdrew, and majority of intense
fighting occurred at Tianjin. The Taku Forts at Tianjin fell on 30 July, concluding the campaign.
The Japanese Army had been given orders not to advance further than the Yongding River. The Konoe
governments foreign minister opened negotiations with Chiang Kai-sheks government in Nanjing
and stated: "Japan wants Chinese cooperation, not Chinese land." After the Tongzhou mutiny on
29 July, Chinese soldiers assigned to a Japanese-backed puppet government mutinied and killed
approximately 200 Japanese and Korean civilians. This inflamed anti-Chinese sentiments in Japan,
convinced many in the military that escalation in China was necessary.
On August 6, 1937, Soviet Ambassador Ivan Maisky reportedly assured Chinese officials that if the
United States, England, and France offered mediation and Japan rejected it, "the Soviet Union would
go to war on the side of China." Chiang Kai-shek, bolstered by these continued Russian promises
of armed assistance, "personally wished to fight" rather than accept a diplomatic compromise with
Japan.
Foreign Minister Kki Hirota attempted to bring the conflict to a close through the "Funatsu
Operation" in early August. Entrusted to Funatsu Tatsuichir, former consul-general in Shanghai, the
plan aimed to negotiate a ceasefire directly with Gao Zongwu, head of the Nationalist foreign
ministrys Asian Affairs Bureau, by having Gao submit a Chinese ceasefire proposal to Japanese
Ambassador Shigeru Kawagoe. The Japanese terms conveyed by Hirota included establishing a
demilitarized zone from Beiping to Tianjin, concluding a Sino-Japanese anti-communist pact, and
securing a Chinese promise to not make the existence of Manchukuo an issue in the future. Hirota
believed these conditions were highly generous and would be well-received by Nanjing and the
international community. However, historians note that the Chinese government viewed these terms
BeipingTianjin campaign
Diplomatic maneuvering
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

12/55

A baby sits in the remains of a
Shanghai train station on Bloody
Saturday, 1937
German-trained National
Revolutionary Army, 88th Division,
defending a street intersection,
Shanghai, 1937.
as unacceptable because they required severe political concessions. Funatsu contacted Gao on 9
August, but the talks were immediately halted that evening by the yama Incident, when two
Japanese naval personnel were killed in Shanghai. Talks officially collapsed on 13 August when the
Battle of Shanghai erupted, and the personnel of the Japanese consulate in Nanjing were subsequently
withdrawn on 14 August.
The Imperial General Headquarters (GHQ) in Tokyo was
content with the gains acquired in northern China following
the Marco Polo Bridge Incident, initially showed reluctance to
escalate the conflict into a full-scale war. However, the
situation in Shanghai reached a breaking point on 9 August
1937, when the yama Incident occurred with the shooting of
two Japanese officers who were attempting to enter the
Hongqiao military airport. The Japanese demanded that all
Chinese forces withdraw from Shanghai; the Chinese outright
refused to meet this demand.
In response, both the Chinese and the Japanese marched
reinforcements into the Shanghai area. Chiang concentrated
his best troops north of Shanghai in an effort to impress the
citys large foreign community and increase Chinas foreign
support. On 13 August 1937, Kuomintang soldiers attacked Japanese Marine positions in
Shanghai, with Japanese army troops and marines in turn crossing into the city with naval gunfire
support at Zhabei, leading to the Battle of Shanghai. On 14 August, Chinese forces under the
command of Zhang Zhizhong were ordered to capture or destroy the Japanese strongholds in
Shanghai, leading to bitter street fighting.
Chiang Kai-shek and his generals were influenced by
assurances from Soviet Ambassador Dmitry Bogomolov, who
had promised that China could expect support from the Soviet
Union if it undertook armed resistance. The Sino-Soviet
Non-Aggression Pact was signed on August 21 and soon, the
USSR delivered military aid through Operation Zet, including
aircraft, tanks, equipment, and military advisors. However,
the Soviet Union never directly intervened in the war as
Chiang had hoped.
In late August, the Japanese Army landed reinforcements in
northern Shanghai. Chinese commanders quickly rushed
forces to counter the landings, resulting in heavy fighting
including trench and urban warfare. Both sides suffered high
casualty rates in the attrition.
Battle of Shanghai
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

13/55

As the battle in Shanghai continued, Japan advanced along railway lines in the North, until they
reached Jinan and the Yellow River. Alongside Mengjiang forces, Japan invaded Taiyuan and the
North China area. By 26 October, the IJA had captured Dachang, a key strong-point within Shanghai,
and on 5 November, additional reinforcements from Japan landed in Hangzhou Bay behind Chinese
lines. On November 9, the 10th Army reinforced Hangzhou Bay, and the NRA began a general
retreat. The Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) ultimately committed over 300,000 troops, along with
numerous naval vessels and aircraft, to capture the city. After more than three months of intense
fighting, their casualties far exceeded initial expectations. Japan did not immediately occupy the
Shanghai International Settlement or the Shanghai French Concession, areas which were outside of
Chinas control due to the treaty port system. Japan moved into these areas after its 1941 declaration
of war against the United States and the United Kingdom.
Following the Battle of Shanghai, the Army General Staff imposed an "operation restriction line" up to
the cities of Suzhou and Jiaxing with the aim of ending the war. Konoes government presented peace
terms to Chiang Kai-shek through the Trautmann Mediation. These term included no demands for
territorial annexation, but rather requirements for economic cooperation and an anti-communist
pact. Chiang may have been encouraged to hold out in hopes of a Western intervention, after U.S.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt delivered his Quarantine Speech in Chicago on October 5, advocating
for an international quarantine of aggressor nations. Japan was invited to the Nine Power Treaty
Conference in Brussels, but this was denied by Hirota who believed it would merely result in
bolstering up China and in prolonging rather than shortening the warfare. While Chiang secretly
hoped for FDR to take action to immediately end the war with Japan, the conference ultimately failed
to impose sanctions on Japan,.
The Japanese militarys non-expansion policy was discarded when Japanese generals disobeyed
orders and began to pursue retreating Chinese forces past the restriction line on November 19, aiming
to encircle Nanjing. The Japanese Army General Staff then authorized the capture of Nanjing on
November 28, 1937, to force a conclusion to the conflict.
In November 1937, the Japanese concentrated 220,000 soldiers and began a campaign against
Nanjing . Building on the hard-won victory in Shanghai, the IJA advanced on and captured the
KMT capital city of Nanjing (December 1937) and Northern Shanxi (September November 1937).
Japanese forces inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese soldiers defending the city, killing
approximately 50,000 of them including 17 Chinese generals. Upon the capture of Nanjing,
Japanese committed massive war atrocities including mass murder and rape of Chinese civilians after
13 December 1937, which has been referred to as the Nanjing Massacre. Over the next several weeks,
Japanese troops perpetrated numerous mass executions and tens of thousands of rapes. The army
looted and burned the surrounding towns and the city, destroying more than a third of the
buildings. The number of Chinese killed in the massacre has been subject to much debate, with
estimates ranging from 100,000 to more than 300,000. The numbers agreed upon by most
scholars are provided by the International Military Tribunal for the Far East, which estimate at least
200,000 murders and 20,000 rapes.
Fall of Nanjing and massacre
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

14/55

A Chinese POW about to be
beheaded by a Japanese officer with a
shin gunto
The Japanese atrocities in Nanjing, especially following the
Chinese defense of Shanghai, increased international goodwill
for the Chinese people and the Chinese government. The
Nationalist government re-established itself in Chongqing,
which became the wartime seat of government until
1945. Following the capture of Nanjing, Chiang Kai-
shek was now willing to accept Japans initial proposal.
However, the Japanese government hardened its terms
drastically 
with 
the 
inclusion 
of 
the 
recognition 
of
Manchukuo. Peace negotiations broke down and Chiang Kai-
shek failed to respond by the January 12, 1938 deadline. Prime
Minister Konoe issued the First Konoe Statement on January
16, 1938, declaring: "We will no longer deal with the
government of Chiang Kai-shek." This effectively severed
relations and committed Japan to a total war of regime
change.
In 1937, then pro-Soviet General Sheng Shicai invaded
Dunganistan accompanied by Soviet troops to defeat General Ma Hushan of the KMT 36th Division.
General Ma expected help from Nanjing, but did not receive it. The Nationalist government was forced
to deny these maneuvers as "Japanese propaganda", as it needed continued military supplies from the
Soviets.
By January 1938, most conventional Kuomintang forces had either been defeated or no longer offered
major resistance to Japanese advances. KMT forces won a few victories in 1938 (the Battle of
Taierzhuang and the Battle of Wanjialing) but were generally ineffective that year. By March
1938, the Japanese controlled almost all of North China. Communist-led rural resistance to
the Japanese remained active, however. Following the fall of Shanghai and Nanjing in late
1937, the Nationalist military command began a war of attrition known as "trading space for time" (
). By gradually withdrawing into Chinas vast interior and establishing the rugged
southwestern province of Sichuan as a final defensive base, the Kuomintang intended to over-extend
Japanese supply lines while reconstituting its depleted central armies.
With many victories achieved, Japanese field generals escalated the war in Jiangsu in an attempt to
wipe out the Chinese forces in the area. The Japanese managed to overcome Chinese resistance
around Bengbu and the Teng xian, but were fought to a halt at Linyi. The Japanese were then
decisively defeated at the Battle of Taierzhuang (MarchApril 1938), where the Chinese used night
attacks and close-quarters combat to overcome Japanese advantages in firepower. The Chinese also
severed Japanese supply lines from the rear, forcing the Japanese to retreat in the first Chinese victory
of the war. The Japanese then attempted to surround and destroy the Chinese armies in the
Xinjiang rebellion
1938: Strategic retreat
Xuzhou and Wuhan
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

15/55

Chinese soldiers in urban warfare in
the Battle of Taierzhuang, MarchApril
1938
Chinese troops advancing near
Wanjialing
National Revolutionary Army soldiers
during the 1938 Yellow River flood
Xuzhou region with an enormous pincer movement. However
the majority of the Chinese forces, some 200,000300,000
troops in 40 divisions, managed to break out of the
encirclement and retreat to defend Wuhan, the Japaneses
next target.
Following Xuzhou, the IJA changed its strategy and deployed
almost all of its existing armies in China to attack the city of
Wuhan, which had become the political, economic and
military center of China, in hopes of destroying the fighting
strength of the NRA and forcing the KMT government to
negotiate for peace. On 6 June, they captured Kaifeng, the
capital of Henan, and threatened to take Zhengzhou, the
junction of the Pinghan and Longhai railways. The Japanese
forces, numbering some 400,000 men, were faced by over 1
million NRA troops in the Central Yangtze region. Having
learned from their defeats at Shanghai and Nanjing, the
Chinese had adapted themselves to fight the Japanese and
managed to check their forces on many fronts, slowing and
sometimes reversing the Japanese advances, as in the case of
Wanjialing. 
To 
overcome 
Chinese 
resistance,
Japanese forces frequently deployed poison gas and
committed atrocities against civilians, such as a "mini-Nanjing
Massacre" in the city of Jiujiang upon its capture.
After four months of intense combat, the Nationalists were
forced to abandon Wuhan by October, and its government and
armies retreated to Chongqing. Both sides had suffered tremendous casualties in the battle, with
the Chinese losing up to 500,000 soldiers killed or wounded,:42 and the Japanese up to
200,000.
The 1938 Yellow River flood (simplified Chinese: 
; traditional Chinese: ; pinyin:
Huyunku Jud Shjin; lit. Huayuankou Dam Burst
Incident) was a man-made flood in China from June 1938 to
January 1947 created by the intentional destruction of levees
on the Yellow River in Huayuankou, Henan, by the National
Revolutionary Army (NRA) during the Second Sino-Japanese
War. The first wave of floods hit Zhongmu County on 13 June
1938.
NRA commanders intended the flood to act as a scorched
earth defensive line against the Imperial Japanese Armed
Forces. There were three long-term strategic intentions behind the decision to cause the
flooding: firstly, the flood in Henan safeguarded the Guanzhong section of the Longhai railway, a
Yellow River flood
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

16/55

A map of the flooded area in 1938
major northwestern route used by the Soviet Union to send
supplies to the NRA from August 1937 to March 1941.
Secondly, the flooding of significant portions of land and
railway sections made it difficult for the Japanese military to
enter Shaanxi, thereby preventing them from invading the
Sichuan basin, where the Chinese wartime capital of
Chongqing and Chinas southwestern home front were
located. Thirdly, the floods in Henan and Anhui destroyed
much of the tracks and bridges of the BeijingWuhan railway,
the TianjinPukou railway and the Longhai railway, thereby
preventing the Japanese from effectively moving their forces across Northern and Central China.
In the short term, the NRA aimed to use the flood to halt the rapid transit of Japanese units from
Northern China to areas near Wuhan.
By 1939, the Nationalist army had withdrawn to the southwest and northwest of China and the
Japanese controlled the coastal cities that had been centres of Nationalist power. From 1939 to
1945, China was divided into three regions: Japanese-occupied territories (Lunxianqu), the
Nationalist-controlled region (Guotongqu), and the Communist-controlled regions (Jiefangqu, or
liberated areas). During this period, the main Chinese objective was to drag out the war for as
long as possible in a war of attrition, thereby exhausting Japanese resources while it was building up
Chinas military capacity. American general Joseph Stilwell called this strategy "winning by
outlasting".
From the beginning of 1939, the war entered a new phase with the unprecedented defeat of the
Japanese at Battle of SuixianZaoyang and First Battle of Changsha. General Ma Biao also led Hui,
Salar and Dongxiang cavalry to defeat the Japanese at the Battle of Huaiyang in the summer of
1939. In 1939, Mao Zedong wrote The Greatest Crisis under Current Conditions, calling for more
active resistance against Japan and for the strengthening of the Second United Front. The
Chinese launched their first large-scale counter-offensive against the IJA in December 1939; however,
due to its low military-industrial capacity and limited experience in modern warfare, this offensive
was defeated. Afterwards Chiang could not risk any more all-out offensive campaigns given the poorly
trained, under-equipped, and disorganized state of his armies and opposition to his leadership both
within the Kuomintang and in China in general. He had lost a substantial portion of his best trained
and equipped troops in the Battle of Shanghai and was at times unable to command his generals
effectively, who maintained a high degree of autonomy from the central KMT government.
After 1940, the Japanese encountered tremendous difficulties in administering and garrisoning the
seized territories, and tried to solve their occupation problems by implementing a strategy of creating
friendly puppet governments favourable to Japanese interests in the territories conquered. This
included prominently the regime headed by Wang Jingwei, one of Chiangs rivals in the KMT.
However, atrocities committed by the Imperial Japanese Army, as well as Japanese refusal to delegate
any real power, left the puppet state very unpopular and largely ineffective. The only success the
19391941: Stalemate
Chinese counter-offensives
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

17/55

Japanese had was to recruit a large Collaborationist Chinese Army to maintain public security in the
occupied areas. By 1941, Japan occupied most of the eastern coastal areas of China and Vietnam,
though guerrilla fighting continued in these areas. Japan had suffered high casualties resulting from
unexpectedly stubborn Chinese resistance, and neither side could make any swift progress in the
manner of Nazi Germany did in western Europe.
By 1943, Guangdong had experienced famine. As the situation worsened, Chinese in New York
received a letter stating that 600,000 people died in Siyi by starvation. Local Chinese resistance
forces, organized separately by both the CCP and the KMT, continued their resistance in occupied
areas to make Japanese administration over the vast land area of China difficult. In 1940, the Chinese
Red Army launched a major offensive in north China, destroying railways and a major coal mine.
Japan had occupied much of north and coastal China by the end of 1941, but the KMT central
government and military had retreated to the western interior to continue their resistance, while the
Chinese communists remained in control of base areas in Shaanxi. From 1941 to 1942, Japan
concentrated most of its forces in China in an effort to defeat the CCP bases behind Japans
lines. Aiming to decrease the Communists human and material resources, the Japanese
military implemented the Three Alls Policy ("Kill all, loot all, burn all").
In accordance with the policy, Japanese forces conducted massacres, slavery, deportations and mass
rape across North and Central China. They destroyed numerous villages, deployed poison gas, and
weaponized forced starvation against the rural countryside. These measures killed millions of Chinese
civilians, but had a marginal effect on guerrilla activity. These destructive campaigns would persist
until March 1945.
After the Mukden Incident in 1931, Chinese public opinion was strongly critical of Manchurias leader,
the "young marshal" Zhang Xueliang, for his non-resistance to the Japanese invasion, even though the
Kuomintang central government was also responsible for this policy, giving Zhang an order to
improvise while not offering support. After losing Manchuria to the Japanese, Zhang and his
Northeast Army were given the duty of suppressing the Red Army in Shaanxi after their Long March.
This resulted in great casualties for his Northeast Army, which received no support in manpower or
weaponry from Chiang Kai-shek. In the Xian Incident on 12 December 1936, Zhang Xueliang
kidnapped Chiang Kai-shek in Xian, hoping to force an end to KMTCCP conflict. Joseph Stalin, who
viewed Chiang Kai-Shek as a crucial asset to the defense of his eastern borders, forced the CCP to
negotiate with the KMT. To secure the release of Chiang, the KMT agreed to a temporary ceasefire
with the Communists.
On 24 December, the two parties verbally agreed to a United Front against Japan. The beleaguered
Communists, who agreed to form the New Fourth Army and the 8th Route Army under the nominal
control of the NRA. In addition, Shaan-Gan-Ning and Shanxi-Chahar-Hebei border regions were
created, under the control of the CCP. In Shaan-Gan-Ning, Communists in the Shaan-Gan-Ning Base
Area fostered opium production, taxed it, and engaged in its tradeincluding selling to Japanese-
occupied and KMT-controlled provinces. The Red Army fought alongside KMT forces during
Three Alls Policy
Formation and collapse of the United Front
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

18/55

the Battle of Taiyuan, and the high point of their cooperation came in 1938 during the Battle of
Wuhan. The formation of a united front fostered the legitimacy of the CCP, but the level of support the
central government would provide to the communists was not settled. When compromise with the
CCP failed to incentivize the Soviet Union to engage in an open conflict against Japan, the KMT
withheld further support for the Communists. To strengthen their legitimacy, Communist forces
actively engaged the Japanese early on. These operations weakened Japanese forces in Shanxi and
other areas in the North.
Mao Zedong was distrustful of Chiang Kai-shek, however, and shifted strategy to guerrilla warfare in
order to preserve the CCPs military strength. Despite Japans steady territorial gains in northern
China, the coastal regions, and the rich Yangtze River Valley in central China, the distrust between the
two antagonists was scarcely veiled. The uneasy alliance began to break down by late 1938, partially
due to the Communists aggressive efforts to expand their military strength by absorbing Chinese
guerrilla forces behind Japanese lines. Chinese militia who refused to switch their allegiance were
often labelled "collaborators" and attacked by CCP forces. For example, the Red Army led by He Long
attacked and wiped out a brigade of Chinese militia led by Zhang Yin-wu in Hebei in June 1939.
Starting in 1940, open conflict between Nationalists and Communists became more frequent in the
occupied areas outside of Japanese control, culminating in the New Fourth Army Incident in January
1941.
Afterwards, the Second United Front completely broke down and Chinese Communists leader Mao
Zedong outlined the preliminary plan for the CCPs eventual seizure of power from Chiang Kai-shek.
Mao himself is quoted outlining the "7-2-1" policy, saying "We are fighting 70 percent for self
development, 20 percent for compromise, and 10 percent against Japan". Mao began his final push for
consolidation of CCP power under his authority during the Yanan Rectification Movement, and his
teachings became the central tenets of the CCP doctrine that came to be formalized as Mao Zedong
Thought. The Communists also began to focus most of their energy on building up their sphere of
influence wherever opportunities were presented, mainly through rural mass organizations,
administrative, land and tax reform measures favouring poor peasants; while the Nationalists
attempted to neutralize the spread of Communist influence by military blockade of areas controlled by
CCP and fighting the Japanese at the same time. In April 1941, Soviet aid to China halted with the
SovietJapanese Neutrality Pact. The CCP formally stated that the pact was "a great victory for Soviet
diplomacy" and "was beneficial to liberation throughout China."
Japan attempted to reach out to Chinese ethnic minorities in order to rally them to their side against
the Han Chinese, but only succeeded with certain Manchu, Mongol, Uyghur, and Tibetan elements.
The Japanese attempt to get the Muslim Hui people on their side failed, as many Chinese generals
such as Bai Chongxi, Ma Hongbin, Ma Hongkui, and Ma Bufang were Hui. The Japanese attempted to
approach Ma Bufang but were unsuccessful in making any agreement with him. Ma Bufang ended
up supporting the anti-Japanese Imam Hu Songshan, who prayed for the destruction of the
Japanese.
Ma became chairman (governor) of Qinghai in 1938 and commanded a group army. He was appointed
because of his anti-Japanese inclinations, and was such an obstruction to Japanese agents trying
to contact the Tibetans that he was called an "adversary" by a Japanese agent. During the
Northwest resistance
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

19/55

Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek and
his wife Soong Mei-ling with Lieutenant
General Joseph Stilwell in 1942, British
Burma
The 18 February 1943 address by
Soong Mei-ling before both houses of the
United States Congress.
offensive, Hui forces in Suiyuan under generals Ma Hongbin and Ma Buqing routed the Imperial
Japanese Army and their puppet Inner Mongol forces and prevented the planned Japanese advance
into northwest China. Ma Hongbins father Ma Fulu had fought against Japanese in the Boxer
Rebellion. Hui cemeteries were destroyed for military reasons. Many Hui fought in the war
against the Japanese such as Bai Chongxi, Ma Hongbin, Ma Hongkui, Ma Bufang, Ma Zhanshan, Ma
Biao, Ma Zhongying, Ma Buqing and Ma Hushan.
Qinghai Tibetans served in the Qinghai army against the Japanese. The Qinghai Tibetans view the
Tibetans of Central Tibet (Tibet proper, ruled by the Dalai Lamas from Lhasa) as distinct and different
from themselves, and even take pride in the fact that they were not ruled by Lhasa ever since the
collapse of the Tibetan Empire.
Xining was subjected to aerial bombardment by Japanese warplanes in 1941, causing all ethnicities in
Qinghai to unite against the Japanese. General Han Youwen directed the defense of the city of Xining
during air raids by Japanese planes. Han survived an aerial bombardment by Japanese planes in
Xining while he was being directed via telephone by Ma Bufang, who hid in an air-raid shelter in a
military barracks. The bombing resulted in Han being buried in rubble, though he was later rescued.
John Scott reported in 1934 that there was both strong anti-Japanese feeling and anti-Bolshevik
among the Muslims of Gansu and he mentioned the Muslim generals Ma Fuxiang, Ma Qi, Ma Anliang
and Ma Bufang who was chairman of Qinghai province when he stayed in Xining.
Japan had expected to extract economic benefits of its
invasions of China and elsewhere, including in the form of fuel
and raw material resources. As Japanese aggression
continued, however, the United States responded with trade
embargoes on various goods, including oil and petroleum
(beginning December 1939) and scrap iron and munitions
(beginning July 1940). The United States demanded
that Japan withdraw from China and also refused to recognize
Japans occupations of the Indochinese countries. In
spring 1941, trade negotiations between the United States and
Japan failed. In July 1941, the United States froze
Japanese financial assets and obtained Dutch and British
agreements to also cut those countries oil exports to
Japan. This in turn prompted the Japanese decision to
attack Pearl Harbor in December 1941.
The United States embargoed Japan in 1940, depriving it of
shipments of oil and various other resources necessary to
continue the war in China. This pressure, which was intended to disparage a continuation of the war
and bring Japan into negotiation, resulted in the Attack on Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and Japans drive
south to procure from the resource-rich European colonies in Southeast Asia by force the resources
19421943: Allied entry
21:01
Embargoes
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

20/55

A United States poster from the United
China Relief organization advocating aid
to China
which the United States had denied to them. Following the
attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States declared war against
Japan, and within days China joined the Allies in formal
declaration of war against Japan, Germany and Italy. As the
Western Allies entered the war against Japan, the Sino-
Japanese War would become part of a greater conflict, the
Pacific theatre of World War II. Japans military action against
the United States also restrained its capacity to conduct
further offensive operations in China, although it had seized
British Hong Kong in December 1941.
After the Lend-Lease Act was passed in 1941, American
financial and military aid began to trickle in. Claire Lee
Chennault commanded the 1st American Volunteer Group
(nicknamed the Flying Tigers), with American pilots flying
American warplanes which were painted with the Chinese flag
to attack the Japanese. He headed both the volunteer group
and the uniformed U.S. Army Air Forces units that replaced it
in 1942.
However, it was the Soviets that provided the greatest material help for China from 1937 into 1941,
with fighter aircraft for the Nationalist Chinese Air Force and artillery and armour for the Chinese
Army through the Sino-Soviet Treaty; Operation Zet also provided for a group of Soviet volunteer
combat aviators to join the Chinese Air Force in the fight against the Japanese occupation from late
1937 through 1939. Almost immediately, Chinese troops achieved another decisive victory in the
Battle of Changsha, which earned the Chinese government much prestige from the Western Allies.
China was one of the "Big Four" Allied Powers during the war. President Franklin D. Roosevelt
referred to the United States, United Kingdom, Soviet Union and China as the worlds "Four
Policemen"; his primary reason for elevating China to such a status was the belief that after the war it
would serve as a bulwark against the Soviet Union.
Chiang was named Allied commander-in-chief in the China theater in 1942. American general Joseph
Stilwell served for a time as Chiangs chief of staff, while simultaneously commanding American forces
in the China-Burma-India Theater. For many reasons, relations between Stilwell and Chiang soon
broke down. Some historians (such as Barbara W. Tuchman) have suggested it was largely due to the
corruption and inefficiency of the Kuomintang government, while others (such as Ray Huang and
Hans van de Ven) have depicted it as a more complicated situation.
Stilwell had a strong desire to assume total control of Chinese troops and pursue an aggressive
strategy, while Chiang preferred a patient and less expensive strategy of out-waiting the Japanese.
Chiang continued to maintain a defensive posture despite Allied pleas to actively break the Japanese
blockade, because China had already suffered tens of millions of war casualties and believed that
Japan would eventually capitulate in the face of Americas overwhelming industrial output. For these
Foreign aid
Tensions with Allied commanders
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

21/55

1943 propaganda painting with
American, Chinese and British soldiers
reasons the other Allies gradually began to lose confidence in the Chinese ability to conduct offensive
operations from the Asian mainland, and instead concentrated their efforts against the Japanese in
the Pacific Ocean Areas and South West Pacific Area, employing an island hopping strategy. Long-
standing differences in national interest and political stance among China, the United States, and the
United Kingdom remained in place.
Chiang Kai-shek continued to receive supplies from the
United States. However, in contrast to the Arctic supply route
to the Soviet Union which stayed open through most of the
war, sea routes to China and the YunnanVietnam Railway
had been closed since 1940. Therefore, between the closing of
the Burma Road in 1942 and its re-opening as the Ledo Road
in 1945, foreign aid was largely limited to what could be flown
in over "The Hump". In Burma, on 16 April 1942, 7,000
British soldiers were encircled by the Japanese 33rd Division
during the Battle of Yenangyaung and rescued by the Chinese
38th Division. Chinese forces advanced to northern
Burma in late 1943, besieged Japanese troops in Myitkyina,
and captured Mount Song.
British Prime Minister Winston Churchill was reluctant to devote British troops, many of whom had
been routed by the Japanese in earlier campaigns, to the reopening of the Burma Road; Stilwell, on
the other hand, believed that reopening the road was vital, as all Chinas mainland ports were under
Japanese control. The Allies "Europe first" policy did not sit well with Chiang, while the later British
insistence that China send more and more troops to Indochina for use in the Burma Campaign was
seen by Chiang as an attempt to use Chinese manpower to defend British colonial possessions. Chiang
also believed that China should divert its crack army divisions from Burma to eastern China to defend
the airbases of the American bombers that he hoped would defeat Japan through bombing, a strategy
that American general Claire Lee Chennault supported but which Stilwell strongly opposed. In
addition, Chiang voiced his support of the Indian independence movement in a 1942 meeting with
Mohandas Gandhi, which further soured the relationship between China and the United
Kingdom.
Most of Chinas industry had already been captured or destroyed by Japan, and the Soviet Union
refused to allow the United States to supply China through the Kazakhstan into Xinjiang as the
Xinjiang warlord Sheng Shicai had turned anti-Soviet in 1942 with Chiangs approval. For these
reasons, the Chinese government never had the supplies and equipment needed to mount major
counter-offensives. Despite the severe shortage of matriel, in 1943, the Chinese were successful in
repelling major Japanese offensives in Hubei and Changde.
The Chinese Kuomintang also supported the Vietnamese Vit Nam Quc Dn ng (VNQDD) in its
battle against French and Japanese imperialism. In Guangxi, Chinese military leaders were organizing
Vietnamese nationalists against the Japanese. The VNQDD had been active in Guangxi and some of
Burma campaign
Indochina resistance
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

22/55

French colonial troops retreating to
the Chinese border after the Japanese
coup dtat in March 1945
their members had joined the KMT army. Under the
umbrella of KMT activities, a broad alliance of nationalists
emerged. With Ho Chi Minh at the forefront, the Viet Nam
Doc Lap Dong Minh Hoi (Vietnamese Independence League,
usually known as the Viet Minh) was formed and based in the
town of Jingxi. The pro-VNQDD nationalist Ho Ngoc
Lam, a KMT army officer and former disciple of Phan Bi
Chu, was named as the deputy of Phm Vn ng, later to be
Hos Prime Minister. The front was later broadened and
renamed the Viet Nam Giai Phong Dong Minh (Vietnam
Liberation League).
The Viet Nam Revolutionary League was a union of various
Vietnamese nationalist groups, run by the pro Chinese
VNQDD. Chinese KMT General Zhang Fakui created the league to further Chinese influence in
Indochina, against the French and Japanese. Its stated goal was for unity with China under the Three
Principles of the People, created by KMT founder Dr. Sun and opposition to Japanese and French
Imperialists. The Revolutionary League was controlled by Nguyen Hai Than, who was born in
China and could not speak Vietnamese. General Zhang shrewdly blocked the Communists of Vietnam,
and Ho Chi Minh from entering the league, as Zhangs main goal was Chinese influence in
Indochina. The KMT utilized these Vietnamese nationalists during World WarII against Japanese
forces.
Franklin D. Roosevelt, through General Stilwell, privately made it clear that they preferred that the
French not reacquire French Indochina (modern day Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos) after the war was
over. Roosevelt instead offered Chiang Kai-shek control of all of Indochina. It was said that Chiang
Kai-shek replied: "Under no circumstances!" After the war, 200,000 Chinese troops under
General Lu Han were sent by Chiang Kai-shek to northern Indochina (north of the 16th parallel) to
accept the surrender of Japanese occupying forces there, and remained in Indochina until 1946, when
the French returned. The Chinese used the VNQDD, the Vietnamese branch of the Chinese
Kuomintang, to increase their influence in French Indochina and to put pressure on their
opponents. Chiang Kai-shek threatened the French with war in response to maneuvering by the
French and Ho Chi Minhs forces against each other, forcing them to come to a peace agreement. In
February 1946, he also forced the French to surrender all of their concessions in China and to
renounce their extraterritorial privileges in exchange for the Chinese withdrawing from northern
Indochina and allowing French troops to reoccupy the region. Following Frances agreement to these
demands, the withdrawal of Chinese troops began in March 1946.
With Japanese casualties and costs mounting, the Imperial General Headquarters attempted to break
Chinese resistance by ordering the Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service and Imperial Japanese Army
Air Service to launch the wars first massive air raids on civilian targets. Japanese raiders hit the
Kuomintangs newly established provisional capital of Chongqing and most other major cities in
unoccupied China, leaving many people either dead, injured, or homeless.
Aerial bombardment
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

23/55

A photograph taken by IJA reporters
on 16 June 1940 and published in the
Asahi Shimbun showing bombs from
IJAAF Type 97/Ki-21 ()
heavy bombers exploding on Yuzhong
Peninsula
After the Doolittle Raid, the Imperial Japanese Army
conducted a massive sweep through Zhejiang and Jiangxi,
now known as the Zhejiang-Jiangxi Campaign, with the goal
of 
finding 
the 
surviving 
American 
airmen, 
applying
retribution on the Chinese who aided them and destroying air
bases. The operation started 15 May 1942, with 40 infantry
battalions and 1516 artillery battalions but was repelled by
Chinese forces in September.
During this campaign, the Imperial Japanese Army left behind
a trail of devastation and also spread cholera, typhoid, plague
and dysentery pathogens. Chinese estimates record that as
many as 250,000 civilians, the vast majority of whom were
destitute Tanka boat people and other pariah ethnicities
unable to flee, may have died of disease. It caused more
than 16 million civilians to evacuate far away deep inward
China. Around 90% of Ningbos population had already fled
before battle started.
In 1944, the Communists launched counteroffensives from the liberated areas against Japanese
forces. Japans 1944 Operation Ichi-Go was the largest military campaign of the Second Sino-
Japanese War. The campaign mobilized 500,000 Japanese troops, 100,000 horses, 1,500 artillery
pieces, and 800 tanks. Japanese forces advanced along Chinese railway lines and targeted
American airfields. Chinese armies were poorly supplied and unprepared, and consequently lost
300,000 casualties along with large swathes of territory.
In late November 1944, the Japanese advance slowed approximately 300 miles from Chongqing as it
experienced shortages of trained soldiers and materiel. Although Operation Ichi-Go achieved its goals
of seizing United States air bases and establishing a potential railway corridor from Manchukuo to
Hanoi, it did so too late to impact the result of the broader war. American bombers in Chengdu were
moved to the Mariana Islands where, along with bombers from bases in Saipan and Tinian, they could
still bomb the Japanese home islands.
The poor performance of Chiang Kai-sheks forces in opposing the Japanese advance during
Operation Ichi-Go became widely viewed as demonstrating Chiangs incompetence. It
irreparably damaged the Roosevelt administrations view of Chiang and the KMT. The campaign
further weakened the Nationalist economy and government revenues. Because of the
Nationalists increasing inability to fund the military, Nationalist authorities overlooked military
corruption and smuggling. The Nationalist army increasingly turned to raiding villages to press-gang
peasants into service and force marching them to assigned units. Approximately 10% of these
peasants died before reaching their units.
1944: Renewed offensives
Operation Ichi-Go
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

24/55

WWII victory parade at Chongqing on
3 September 1945
After Operation Ichi-Go, Chiang Kai-shek started a plan to withdraw Chinese troops from the Burma
theatre against Japan in Southeast Asia for a counter offensive called "White Tower" and "Iceman"
against Japanese soldiers in China in 1945. By the end of 1944, Chinese troops under the
command of Sun Li-jen attacking from India, and those under Wei Lihuang attacking from Yunnan,
joined forces in Mong-Yu, successfully driving the Japanese out of North Burma and securing the
Ledo Road, Chinas vital supply artery.
As the war went on, Nationalist General Ma Buqing was in virtual control of the Gansu corridor.
Ma had earlier fought against the Japanese, but because the Soviet threat was great, Chiang in July
1942 directed him to move 30,000 of his troops to the Tsaidam marsh in the Qaidam Basin of
Qinghai. Chiang further named Ma as Reclamation Commissioner, to threaten Shengs
southern flank in Xinjiang, which bordered Tsaidam.
The Ili Rebellion broke out in Xinjiang when the Kuomintang Hui Officer Liu Bin-Di was killed while
fighting Turkic Uyghur rebels in November 1944. The Soviet Union supported the Turkic rebels
against the Kuomintang, and Kuomintang forces fought back. The conflict ended in a ceasefire and
establishment of a coalition government between the East Turkestan Republic and Republic of China
in June 1946.
In the spring of 1945, the Chinese launched offensives that retook Hunan and Guangxi. With the
Chinese army progressing well in training and equipment, Wedemeyer planned to launch Operation
Carbonado in summer 1945 to retake Guangdong and Hong Kong, thus obtaining a coastal port, and
from there drive northwards toward Shanghai. However, the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki and Soviet invasion of Manchuria in August 1945 hastened Japanese surrender and these
plans were not put into action.
During the Second Sino-Japanese War, the Japanese had
consistent tactical successes but they failed to achieve
strategic results. Although it seized the majority of
Chinas industrial capacity, occupied most major cities, and
rarely lost a battle, Japans occupation of China was
costly. Japan had approximately 50,000 military
fatalities each year and 200,000 wounded per year.
After the Soviet-Japanese War started on August 8, the
Kwantung Army, which was the primary Japanese fighting
force in Manchuria, consisting of over a million men
but lacking in adequate armour, artillery, or air support, had been destroyed by the Soviets.
Ili Rebellion
1945: Conclusion
Final Chinese offensives
Japanese surrender
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

25/55

Japanese Emperor Hirohito officially capitulated to the Allies on 15 August 1945. The official
surrender was signed aboard the battleship USSMissouri on 2 September 1945, in a ceremony where
several Allied commanders including Chinese general Hsu Yung-chang were present.
After the Allied victory in the Pacific, General Douglas MacArthur ordered all Japanese forces within
China (excluding Manchuria), Taiwan and French Indochina north of 16 north latitude to surrender
to Chiang Kai-shek, and the Japanese troops in China formally surrendered in Nanking on 9
September 1945, at 09:00 Kansu-Szechwan Time (UTC+07:00). The ninth hour of the ninth day
of the ninth month was chosen in echo of the Armistice of 11 November 1918 (on the eleventh hour of
the eleventh day of the eleventh month) and because "nine" ( ji) is a homophone of the word for
"long lasting" () in Chinese (to suggest that the peace won would last forever).
Chiang relied on American help in transporting Nationalist troops to regain control of formerly
Japanese-occupied areas. Non-Chinese generally viewed the behavior of these troops as
undercutting Nationalist legitimacy, and these troops engaged in corruption and looting, leading to
widespread views of a "botched liberation". The Nationalist government seized Japanese-held
businesses at the time of the Japanese surrender. The Nationalist government made little effort
to return these businesses to their original Chinese owners. A mechanism existed through
which Chinese and foreign owners could petition for the return of their former property. In
practice, the Nationalist government and its officials retained a great deal of the seized property and
embezzling property, particularly from warehouses, was common. Nationalist officials
sometimes extorted money from individuals in liberated territories under threat of labeling them as
Japanese collaborators. Chiangs focus on his communist opponents prompted him to leave
Japanese troops or troops of the Japanese puppet regimes to remain on duty in occupied areas so as
to avoid their surrender to Communist forces.
The NRA adopted the concept of "magnetic warfare" to attract advancing Japanese troops to definite
points where they were subjected to ambush, flanking attacks, and encirclements in major
engagements. The most prominent example of this tactic was the successful defense of Changsha in
1939, and again in the 1941 battle, in which heavy casualties were inflicted on the IJA. After their
victory at Wuhan, Japan advanced deep into Communist territory and redeployed 50,000 troops to
the Shanxi-Chahar-Hebei Border Region. Elements of the Eighth Route Army soon attacked the
advancing Japanese, claiming to have inflicted between 3,000 and 5,000 casualties and caused a
Japanese retreat. The Eighth Route Army carried out guerilla operations and established
military and political bases.
As the Japanese military came to understand that the Communists avoided conventional attacks and
defense, it altered its tactics. The Japanese military built more roads to quicken movement
between strongpoints and cities, blockaded rivers and roads in an effort to disrupt Communists
supply, sought to expand militia from its puppet regime to conserve manpower, and use systematic
Tactics
Guerrilla and suicide attacks
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

26/55

Chinese suicide bomber putting on an
explosive vest made out of Model 24
hand grenades to use in an attack on
Japanese tanks at the Battle of
Taierzhuang
violence on civilians in the Border Region in an effort to
destroy its economy. The Japanese military mandated
confiscation of the Eighth Route Armys goods and used this
directive as a pretext to confiscate goods, including engaging
in grave robbery in the Border Region.
Chinese armies deployed "dare to die corps" (traditional
Chinese: ; simplified Chinese: ; pinyin: gnsdu)
or "suicide squads" against the Japanese. Suicide bombing
was also used against the Japanese. A Chinese soldier
detonated a grenade vest and killed 20 Japanese at Sihang
Warehouse. Chinese troops strapped explosives, such as
grenade packs or dynamite to their bodies and threw
themselves under Japanese tanks to blow them up. This
tactic was used during the Battle of Shanghai, where a Chinese
suicide bomber stopped a Japanese tank column by exploding
himself beneath the lead tank, and at the Battle of
Taierzhuang, where dynamite and grenades were strapped on
by Chinese troops who rushed at Japanese tanks and blew
themselves up. During one incident at Taierzhuang,
Chinese suicide bombers destroyed four Japanese tanks with grenade bundles.
In contravention of Article 23 of the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907, article V of the Treaty in
Relation to the Use of Submarines and Noxious Gases in Warfare, article 171 of the Treaty of
Versailles and despite a resolution adopted by the League of Nations on 14 May 1938, condemning the
use of poison gas by the Empire of Japan, the Imperial Japanese Army frequently used chemical
weapons during the war. According to statistics from the Nationalist government, the Japanese army
from July 1937 until September 1945 used poison gas 1,973 times. Based on available data, a total of
103,069 Chinese soldiers and civilians died from biological and chemical weapons. According to
historians Yoshiaki Yoshimi and Seiya Matsuno, the chemical weapons were authorized by specific
orders given by Hirohito himself, transmitted by the Imperial General Headquarters. Those orders
were transmitted either by Prince Kanin Kotohito or General Hajime Sugiyama. Gases
manufactured in Okunoshima were used more than 2,000 times against Chinese soldiers and civilians
in the war in China in the 1930s and 1940s. For example, the Emperor authorized the use of toxic
gas on 375 separate occasions during the Battle of Wuhan from August to October 1938.
According to Walter E. Grunden, history professor at Bowling Green State University, Japan
permitted the use of chemical weapons in China because the Japanese concluded that Chinese forces
did not possess the capacity to retaliate in kind. The Japanese incorporated gas warfare into many
aspects of their army, which includes special gas troops, infantry, artillery, engineers and air force; the
Japanese were aware of basic gas tactics of other armies, and deployed multifarious gas warfare tactics
in China. The Japanese were very dependent on gas weapons when they were engaged in
chemical warfare. Japan used poison gas at Hankow during the Battle of Wuhan to break fierce
Chinese resistance after conventional Japanese assaults were repelled by Chinese defenders.
Chemical and biological warfare
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

27/55

According to Freda Utley, during the battle at Hankow, in areas where Japanese artillery or gunboats
on the river could not reach Chinese defenders on hilltops, Japanese infantrymen had to fight Chinese
troops on the hills. She noted that the Japanese were inferior at hand-to-hand combat against the
Chinese, and resorted to deploying poison gas to defeat the Chinese troops. She was told by
General Li Zongren that the Japanese consistently used tear gas and mustard gas against Chinese
troops. Li also added that his forces could not withstand large scale deployments of Japanese
poison gas. Since Chinese troops did not have gas-masks, the poison gases provided enough time
for Japanese troops to bayonet debilitated Chinese soldiers. Rana Mitter writes,
Under General Xue Yue, some 100,000 Chinese troops pushed back Japanese forces at
Huangmei. At the fortress of Tianjiazhen, thousands of men fought until the end of
September, with Japanese victory assured only with the use of poison gas.
They were also used during the invasion of Changde. During the battle in Yichang of October 1941,
Japanese troops used chemical munitions in their artillery and mortar fire, and warplanes dropped
gas bombs all over the area; since the Chinese troops were poorly equipped and without gas-masks,
they were severely gassed, burned and killed.
Bacteriological weapons provided by Shir Ishiis units were also profusely used. For example, in
1940, the Imperial Japanese Army Air Force bombed Ningbo with fleas carrying the bubonic
plague. During the Khabarovsk War Crime Trials the accused, such as Major General Kiyashi
Kawashima, testified that, in 1941, some 40 members of Unit 731 air-dropped plague-contaminated
fleas on Changde. These attacks caused epidemic plague outbreaks. In the Zhejiang-Jiangxi
Campaign, of the 10,000 Japanese soldiers who fell ill with the disease, about 1,700 Japanese troops
died when the biological weapons rebounded on their own forces. Japan gave its own soldiers
methamphetamines in the form of Philopon.
The conflict lasted eight years, two months, and two days (from 7 July 1937 to 9 September 1945). The
total number of casualties that resulted from this war (and subsequently theater) equaled more than
half the total number of casualties that later resulted from the entire Pacific War.
Figures for Chinese deaths in the Second Sino-Japanese War vary. Modern estimates fall between 10
million and 20 million deaths, with a consensus of 15 million to 16 million total Chinese deaths,
military and civilian. One study showed a drop of 18 million in the Chinese population during the
war. Duncan Anderson estimates that the total number of Chinese who died was at 20 million.
Official statistics from the Peoples Republic of China for civilian and military casualties in the Second
Sino-Japanese War list over 35 million casualties, including over 20 million dead. Military casualties
amounted to over 3.85 million out of the over 35 million figure. Based on data released by the
Casualties
Chinese
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

28/55

Casualties of a mass panic during a
June 1941 Japanese bombing of
Chongqing. More than 5,000 civilians
died during the first two days of air raids
in 1939.
Museum of the War of Chinese
Peoples Resistance Against Japanese
Aggression in Fengtai, Beijing, on the site
where the Marco Polo Bridge Incident
took place
Nationalists and Communists from 1945 to 1947, the total
losses for Chinese military personnel and civilians in the
Second 
Sino-Japanese 
War 
amounted 
to 
22,782,959
casualties (9,530,317 dead, 9,905,880 wounded or crippled,
540,562 missing, and 2,806,200 captured).
The Nationalists suffered higher casualties because they were
the main combatants opposing the Japanese in each of the 22
major battles (involving more than 100,000 troops on both
sides) between China and Japan. The Communist forces, by
contrast, usually avoided pitched battles with the Japanese, in
which their guerrilla tactics were less effective, and generally
limited their combat to guerrilla actions (the Hundred
Regiments Offensive and the Battle of Pingxingguan are
notable exceptions). The Nationalists committed their
strongest divisions in early battle against the Japanese
(including the 36th, 87th, 88th divisions of Chiangs Central
Army) to defend Shanghai and continued to deploy most of
their forces to fight the Japanese even as the Communists
changed their strategy to engage mainly in a political offensive
against the Japanese while declaring that the CCP should
"save and preserve our strength and wait for favourable
timing" by the end of 1941.
Taiwanese official accounts of the war report the Nationalist
Chinese Army lost 3,238,000 military casualties (1,797,000
wounded, 
1,320,000 
killed, 
and 
120,000
missing).[b][c] The Ministry of Military Affairs
recorded a total of 10,322,934 losses from illnesses,
reorganizations, and desertions. Postwar Nationalist
investigations recorded a total of 3,407,931 military combat
casualties (1,371,374 killed, 1,738,324 wounded, and 298,233
missing) and 422,479 military deaths from illnesses. They
recorded 2,313 casualties (1,042 killed and 1,271 wounded) in
the Air Defense Service.[d][e] The Ministry of Military
Affairs recorded losses among hospitalized soldiers in
institutions directly run by the Nationalist Government at
443,398 for their wounded (45,710 dead, 123,017 crippled,
and 274,671 deserted) and 937,559 losses for their sick
(422,479 dead, 191,644 crippled, and 323,436 deserted), with a total of 1,380,957 losses (468,189
dead, 314,661 crippled, and 598,107 deserted).
A 1959 American academic study estimated military casualties at 1.5 million killed in battle, 750,000
missing in action, 1.5 million deaths due to disease and 3 million wounded. This was based on the
National Central Research Institutes study of Chinas losses from 7 July 1937 until 6 July
1943.
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

29/55

The Japanese recorded between 1.1 and 1.9 million military casualties during the Second Sino-
Japanese War, according to the Japan Defense Ministry, was 480,000. Based on the investigation of
the Japanese Yomiuri Shimbun, the military death toll of Japan in China is about 700,000 since 1937
(excluding the deaths in Manchuria and Burma campaign). Around 900,000 Japanese soldiers
were wounded in China.
Hilary Conroy records a total of 447,000 Japanese soldiers who died or went missing in China during
the Second Sino-Japanese War. Of the 1,130,000 Imperial Japanese Army soldiers who died during
World WarII, 39 percent died in China. In War Without Mercy, John W. Dower claims that a
total of 396,000 Japanese soldiers died in China during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Of this
number, the Imperial Japanese Army lost 388,605 soldiers and the Navy lost 8,000 sailors. Another
54,000 soldiers also died after the war had ended, mostly from illness and starvation. Of the
1,740,955 Japanese soldiers who died during World WarII, 22 percent died in China.
From 1937 to 1941, 185,647 Japanese soldiers were killed in China and 520,000 were wounded.
Disease also incurred critical losses on Japanese forces. From 1937 to 1941, 430,000 Japanese soldiers
were recorded as being sick. In North China alone, 18,000 soldiers were evacuated back to Japan for
illnesses in 1938, 23,000 in 1939, and 15,000 in 1940.[f] From 1941 to 1945: 202,958 dead;
another 54,000 dead after wars end. Chinese forces also report that by May 1945, 22,293 Japanese
soldiers were captured as prisoners. Many more Japanese soldiers surrendered when the war
ended.
Contemporary studies from the Beijing Central Compilation and Translation Press state that the
Japanese suffered a total of 2,227,200 casualties, including 1,055,000 dead and 1,172,341 injured.
These Chinese publication claims these numbers were largely based on Japanese publications.
Both Nationalist and Communist Chinese sources report that their respective forces were responsible
for the deaths of over 1.7 million Japanese soldiers. Nationalist War Minister He Yingqin himself
contested the Communists claims, finding it impossible for a force of "untrained, undisciplined,
poorly equipped" guerrillas of Communist forces to have killed so many enemy soldiers. In 1940,
the National Herald stated that the Japanese exaggerated Chinese casualties, while concealing the true
number of Japanese casualties, releasing false figures that made them appear much lower.
Of these numbers, between 5 million and 6 million starved to death or died from disease. Arne
Westad estimates 14 million Chinese died directly from war, of which two million were soldiers and
the rest civilians. Rana Mitter considers Westads figures conservative. Rudolph Rummel gives a
figure of 10,216,000 total dead in the war, of which 3,949,000 were murdered directly by the
Japanese army, and the rest due to indirect causes like starvation, disease and disruption. The
war created 95 million refugees.
Dr. Bian Xiuyue, a researcher from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, puts total Chinese losses
between 1931 and 1945 at 20,620,939 dead[g] and estimated the number of wounded at 20,692,246,
for a total of 41,313,185 dead or wounded.[h]:438440 Taiwanese official accounts of the war report
the Nationalist Chinese Army lost 3,238,000 military casualties and 5,787,352 civilians putting total
Japanese
Civilians
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

30/55

Chiang Kai-shek and Mao Zedong in
1945
casualties at 9,025,352. Postwar Nationalist investigations recorded 9,134,569 civilian
casualties (4,397,504 dead and 4,737,065 wounded).[i] A 1959 American academic study
estimated civilian casualties at 1,073,496 killed and 237,319 wounded from military activity; and
335,934 killed and 426,249 wounded in Japanese air attacks.
China suffered from famines during the war caused by drought affected both China and India, Chinese
famine of 194243 in Henan that led to starvation deaths of 2 to 3 million people, The Guangdong
famine caused more than 3 million people to flee or die. Victor Hanson estimates total Chinese
deaths from disease and starvation are between 5 million and 6 million. According to historian
Mitsuyoshi Himeta, at least 2.47 million civilians died during the "kill all, loot all, burn all" operation
(Three Alls Policy, or sanko sakusen) implemented in May 1942 in north China by general Yasuji
Okamura and authorized on 3 December 1941, by Imperial Headquarter Order number 575.
During the course of the war, more than 200,000 Chinese women had been forced to become sex
slaves of the Japanese military, known euphemistically as comfort women.
The property losses suffered by the Chinese were valued at 383 billion US dollars according to the
currency exchange rate in July 1937, roughly 50 times the gross domestic product of Japan at that
time (US$7.7 billion).
In 1945, China emerged from the war a victor, but
economically weak and on the verge of all-out civil war. The
economy was sapped by the military demands of a long costly
war and internal strife, by spiraling inflation, and by
corruption in the Nationalist government that included
profiteering, speculation and hoarding. Large swathes of the
prime farming areas had been ravaged by the fighting and
there was starvation and famine in the wake of the war. Many
towns and cities were destroyed, and millions were rendered
homeless by floods.
The poor performance of Nationalist forces opposing the Ichi-
go campaign was largely viewed as reflecting poorly on
Chiangs competence. Chiang blamed the failure on the
United States, particularly Stilwell, who had used Chinese
forces in the Burma Campaign and in Chiangs view, left China
insufficiently defended. As part of the Yalta Conference, which allowed a Soviet sphere of
influence in Manchuria, the Soviets dismantled and removed more than half of the industrial
equipment left there by the Japanese before handing over Manchuria to China. The problems of
rehabilitation and reconstruction after the ravages of a protracted war were staggering, and the war
left the Nationalists severely weakened, and their policies left them unpopular.
Aftermath
Resumption of the Chinese Civil War
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

31/55

Meanwhile, the war strengthened the Communists both in popularity and as a viable fighting force. At
Yanan and elsewhere in the communist controlled areas, Mao Zedong was able to adapt Marxism
Leninism to Chinese conditions. He taught party cadres to lead the masses by living and working with
them, eating their food, and thinking their thoughts. In Japanese-occupied areas, the Communists
had established military and political bases from which it carried out guerilla warfare. The
Communists built popular support in these areas, returning land to poor peasants, reducing peasants
rent, and arming the people. By Spring 1945, there were 19 Communist-governed areas in China
in which 95 million people lived. In Fall 1945, the Communist armies had 1.27 million men and
were supported by 2.68 million militia members.
Mao also began to execute his plan to establish a new China by rapidly moving his forces from Yanan
and elsewhere to Manchuria. This opportunity was available to the Communists because although
Nationalist representatives were not invited to the Yalta Conference, they had been consulted and had
agreed to the Soviet invasion of Manchuria in the belief that the Soviet Union would cooperate only
with the Nationalist government after the war. However, the Soviet occupation of Manchuria was long
enough to allow the Communist forces to move in en masse and arm themselves with the military
hardware surrendered by the Imperial Japanese Army, quickly establish control in the countryside
and move into position to encircle the Nationalist government army in major cities of northeast China.
Following that, the Chinese Civil War resumed between the Nationalists and Communists, which
concluded with the Communist victory in mainland China (which established the Peoples Republic of
China) and the retreat of the Nationalists to Taiwan in 1949.
Several thousand Japanese who were sent as colonizers to Manchukuo and Inner Mongolia were left
behind in China. The majority of these were women, and they married mostly Chinese men and
became known as "stranded war wives" (zanryu fujin). The Japanese government claims that
these women had willingly chosen to stay in China, believing that women thirteen years of age and
older were capable of making the decision to stay or leave China. Due to this, many women faced legal
and cultural concerns about returning to Japan, such as less employment opportunities, less
governmental aid and discrimination. Many of these women had gotten married and
started families with Chinese men, which produced children ineligible to enter Japan due to their lack
of Japanese citizenship. Additionally, Japan created repatriation legislation determined by both based
on age (if they were minors) and if the individual willfully stayed in China or was forcibly separated
from Japan. Other factors such as poor Sino-Japanese relations as well as poorer communication to
rural areas, where many of these women lived, also prevented many Japanese women from returning
to Japan.
In China, some Korean comfort women stayed behind instead of going back to their native
land. Most Korean comfort women who were left behind in China married Chinese men.
Korean women and young girls brought to China during the Second Sino-Japanese War were brought
by the Japanese as comfort women. These women were used as a sexual outlet by Japanese soldiers.
Since the early 1930s, the Japanese brought more than two hundred thousand women, mostly Korean
women, to China; however some estimates reach up to five hundred thousand women. Many of
the women became pregnant and gave birth to children. Some women recall being raped by Japanese
Stranded populations
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

32/55

soldiers more than fifty times a day. While some of these Korean women also stayed in China and
married Chinese men and started families, many were killed by the Japanese towards the end of the
war. Those who returned to Korea faced social barring and stigmatism, making it difficult for these
women to move on from their horrific pasts, and some knowing of the shame they would face stayed
in China.
The days during which each country holds its respective commemorations relate to events
surrounding the end of World War II. The Peoples Republic of China observes September 3 as the
Victory Day of the Chinese Peoples War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, marking when
Japan officially surrendered in Tokyo. Japan observes August 15 as it is the day when Emperor
Hirohito declared Japans surrender.
The Peoples Republic of China also holds military parades, memorials and other annual events, often
held on September 3, to commemorate the end of the Second Sino-Japanese War and World War II.
These events reflect on events of the war, such as the Nanjing Massacre, while creating a collective
sense of national unity and remembrance.
Major museums in China commemorate Chinas War of Resistance, including the Museum of the War
of Chinese Peoples Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, the Nanjing Massacre Memorial
Hall, the Nanjing Museum of the Site of the Lijixiang Comfort Stations, and the Chinese Comfort
Women History Museum.
China also has organized projects to collect archival evidence and oral histories of people who
witnessed atrocities by the Japanese forces, including a nationwide project begun in 2004 to collect
data on casualties and property destruction.
Japan holds a national memorial on August 15, which features statements from government officials
and many Japanese visit the Yasukuni Shrine, which continues to be a controversial point in Japanese
relations with China. Museums such as the Yushukan Museum in Tokyo, which has an exhibit
dedicated to the Second Sino-Japanese War containing artifacts of military elites, and memorial
museums for Hiroshima and Nagasaki all allow the Japanese to remember the events of the Second
Sino-Japanese War and World War II.
The war remains a major obstacle for Sino-Japanese relations. Many academics and pacifists in Japan
recognized the countrys war crimes, but as of 2025, denialists continue to be a significant force in the
Japanese public sphere, especially among the Japanese political right. The Japanese
government has been accused of historical revisionism, for example by allowing the approval of school
textbooks omitting or glossing over Japans militant past, although the most recent controversial
book, the New History Textbook was used by only 0.039% of junior high schools in Japan and
Legacy
Commemorations
Controversy over historical revisionism
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

33/55

Yasukuni Shrine, a Shinto shrine
dedicated to honoring the Japanese
killed in war. It was established in 1869
by Emperor Meiji and remains a popular
site for the Japanese and tourists. 14
Class-A convicted war criminals were
secretly enshrined in 1978.
The Taiwan Strait and the island of
Taiwan
despite the efforts of the Japanese nationalist textbook
reformers, by the late 1990s the most common Japanese
schoolbooks contained references to, for instance, the Nanjing
Massacre, Unit 731, and the comfort women of World WarII,
all historical issues which have faced challenges from
ultranationalists in the past.
In 2005, a history textbook prepared by the Japanese Society
for History Textbook Reform which had been approved by the
government in 2001, sparked huge outcry and protests in
China and Korea. It referred to the Nanjing Massacre and
other atrocities such as the Manila massacre as an "incident",
glossed over the issue of comfort women, and made only brief
references to the death of Chinese soldiers and civilians in
Nanjing. A copy of the 2005 version of a junior high
school textbook titled New History Textbook found that there
is no mention of the "Nanjing Massacre" or the "Nanjing
Incident". Indeed, the only one sentence that referred to this event was: "they [the Japanese troops]
occupied that city in December".
During the Second Sino-Japanese War, Taiwan was a
Japanese colony that was used as a strategic base for military
operations against China and Southeast Asia. In the period
before the war in the Pacific widened, Japan came to regard
Taiwan as an "unsinkable aircraft carrier" and an important
stepping stone in its military expansion. Native Han Chinese
inhabitants on the island were given the option of moving
back to the mainland, although few did.
The Japanese colonial period from 1895 to 1945 physically
and culturally separated Taiwan from mainland China. The
Japanese modernization, legal reform and assimilation
policies fostered an autonomous socioeconomic consciousness
which later formed the backbone of the nascent Taiwanese
independence 
movement, 
which 
grew 
in 
reaction 
to
subsequent Nationalist (KMT) authoritarian rule in Taiwan
following the surrender of Japan (the February 28 incident in
1947 began the turning point). There were indigenous
Taiwanese who worked in Japans defense and war-related industries in Taiwan that abetted Japans
war efforts. Many Taiwanese served in the Japanese military, including units that fought in China,
resulting in the combat deaths of nearly 30,000. The future President, Lee Teng-hui (a future
Kuomintang member) was one of those willingly volunteered into the Japanese army.
Political status of Taiwan
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

34/55

After the surrender, Taiwan and the Penghu islands were put under the administrative control of the
Republic of China (ROC) government in 1945 by the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation
Administration. The ROC proclaimed Taiwan Retrocession Day on 25 October 1945. However,
due to the unresolved Chinese Civil War, neither the newly established Peoples Republic of China in
mainland China nor the Nationalist ROC that retreated to Taiwan was invited to sign the Treaty of San
Francisco, as neither had shown full and complete legal capacity to enter into an international legally
binding agreement. Since both the ROC and PRC were not present, the Japanese only formally
renounced the territorial sovereignty of Taiwan and Penghu islands without specifying to which
country Japan relinquished the sovereignty, and the treaty was signed in 1951 and came into force in
1952.
In 1952, the Treaty of Taipei was signed separately between the ROC and Japan that basically followed
the same guideline of the Treaty of San Francisco, not specifying which country has sovereignty over
Taiwan. However, Article 10 of the treaty states that the Taiwanese people and the juridical person
should be the people and the juridical person of the ROC. Both the PRC and ROC governments
base their claims to Taiwan on the Japanese Instrument of Surrender which specifically accepted the
Potsdam Declaration which refers to the Cairo Declaration.
Disputes over the precise de jure sovereign of Taiwan persist to the present. On a de facto basis,
sovereignty over Taiwan has been and continues to be exercised by the ROC. Japans position has
been to avoid commenting on Taiwans status, maintaining that Japan renounced all claims to
sovereignty over its former colonial possessions after World WarII, including Taiwan.
Traditionally, the Republic of China government has held celebrations marking the Victory Day on 9
September (now known as Armed Forces Day) and Taiwans Retrocession Day on 25 October.
However, after the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) won the presidential election in 2000, these
national holidays commemorating the war have been cancelled as the pro-independent DPP does not
see the relevancy of celebrating events that happened in mainland China. Meanwhile, many KMT
supporters, particularly veterans who retreated with the government in 1949, still have an emotional
interest in the war. For example, in celebrating the 60th anniversary of the end of war in 2005, the
cultural bureau of KMT stronghold Taipei held a series of talks in the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall
regarding the war and post-war developments, while the KMT held its own exhibit in the KMT
headquarters. Whereas the KMT won the presidential election in 2008, the ROC government resumed
commemorating the war. The last and only time Taiwan held a military parade specifically to mark the
end of World War II was in July 2015 under a KMT administration.
Army groups of the National Revolutionary Army
Aviation Martyrs Cemetery
China in the Second Sino-Japanese War
Chinese women in the Second Sino-Japanese War
Chinese Muslims in the Second Sino-Japanese War
Combatants of the Second Sino-Japanese War
Japan during World War II
See also
8/4/26, 6:45 PM
Second Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia

35/55

